     BUDGET
       2026 - 2027




            SPEECH OF
  THE MINISTER FOR FINANCE
 PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
  Dr. N. MARIE WILSON




            th
        On 5 August 2026
Aadi 20, Thiruvalluvar Aandu - 2057
Speech of Dr. N. Marie Wilson, Minister for
Finance,         Planning            and        Development,
Government        of     Tamil Nadu,        presenting       the
Revised Budget Estimates for the year 2026-27
to the Legislative Assembly on 5 th August 2026.


Hon’ble Speaker,

        Paying my deep respects to our ideological
leaders — Thanthai Periyar, Perunthalaivar Kamarajar,
Annal     Ambedkar,           Rani   Velu       Nachiyar     and
Makkal Sevagar Anjalai Ammal — I feel immense
joy and pride in presenting the Revised Budget
Estimates for the year 2026-27 before this august
Assembly, that holds the glorious legacy of being
graced     by    great    people      centric     leaders    like
Perunthalaivar     Kamarajar,        Perarignar     Anna     and
Makkal Thilagam M.G.R., who governed democratically
with unwavering focus on public welfare and guide us
through governance and administration even to this
day. I    also   offer   my     heartfelt   gratitude   to   our
Hon'ble Chief Minister, the beloved leader of the
people, who entered public life solely to pay back the
debt of gratitude        to    the   people   who    gave    him
everything. He overcame numerous conspiracies to
win a historic victory, for the sake of the people he
loves as his own life and for the people who love him
                                       2



as their own, and today he sits in this House as a true
'Jananayagan'.           He      constantly          guides        us,      offers
counsel, and works tirelessly with the sole thought of
delivering     good          governance           to     the       people        of
Tamil Nadu. I express my heartfelt gratitude to this
leader cherished by the people. I begin my address
before this esteemed House with the timeless words
of Thiruvalluvar, the supreme son, who gifted us the
sacred Tamil scripture, Thirukkural:


     ” பி
       பிறற ப்
            ப்பப ொ க்
                   க்கு
                      கும்
                        ம் எ ல்
                             ல்லலொ உ யி
                                     யிர்ர்க்
                                           க்கு
                                              கும்
                                                ம் சி
                                                   சிறற ப்
                                                        ப்பப ொ வ்
                                                               வ்வவொ

     பெ ய்
        ய்பப ொ ழி
               ழில்
                  ல் வவ ற்
                        ற்று
                           றும
                             மை யொ ன்
                                   ன்””
                                                           ( கு
                                                             குறற ள் – 9 7 2 )

     “All are equal by birth; distinctions arise only
     from the deeds each performs”.
                                                           (Kural-972)

     2.       Guided by the noble principle that, 'All are
equal by birth,' our Hon'ble Chief Minister, who has
achieved numerous accomplishments within just three
months of assuming office and has earned an enduring
place in the hearts of the people, living in every
household        as      a     son,        an      elder         brother,        a
younger brother, their very life, their kin and their
every emotion. He is implementing many beneficial
schemes for the people of Tamil Nadu who reside in
his heart.
                                     3



      3.     Our Hon'ble Chief Minister has brought
about a massive people's revolution hitherto unseen
in   the    political      history       of    Tamil        Nadu.      This
Government, founded on the great ideals of inclusive
growth,     social    justice,       equality,      women's          safety,
eradication of poverty, a drug-free Tamil Nadu, and a
corruption-free,            honest            and           transparent
administration, has not only spoken of these ideals
over the last three months, but has also demonstrated
them through action. The people of Tamil Nadu have
increasingly       come     to   recognise          that,     this     is   a
Government         built   on    the     enduring       principles          of
genuine social justice and honest governance.


      4.     This Government, under the leadership of
the Hon'ble Chief Minister, has recorded significant
accomplishments            across        various      sectors         since
assuming      office:      increasing         the    free     electricity
provided to consumers with bi-monthly consumption
of up to 500 units, to 200 units and reducing their
household      expenses;         a   loan     waiver        for   farmers
through co-operative societies; a special package for
Kuruvai cultivation; the 'Singapenn Special Task
Force'       for      women's            safety;       creation             of
Anti-Narcotics Task Force Units at the district level
to   root    out     the    deep-seated             drug     culture        in
Tamil Nadu; closure of 717 liquor retail outlets
                                  4



located     near       educational     institutions,      places     of
worship and bus stands that disrupted daily public life;
and     the      'Thaaimaaman               Thanga        Mothiram
Thittam', to be implemented from 15th September,
the birth anniversary of Perarignar Anna, for children
born in Government Hospitals. The implementation of
these schemes have reinforced the trust that people
have placed in our Government.


       5.     The       victory   of       the    Tamilaga        Vettri
Kazhagam is not merely the victory of a political
party; it is the victory of the entire people of
Tamil Nadu. Guided by this belief, and with the
objective of implementing several welfare schemes for
the benefit of the people, our Government, anchored
in    the   core    principles    of       Aram     (Virtue),     Porul
(Prosperity) and Inbam (Well-being), has released
the    'Vetri    Tamizhagam            –    Vision       Document',
comprising ten key focus areas. Drawing on this
document, the Government is identifying, formulating
and operationalising programmes to be implemented
over    the     next    one,   three       and    five   years.    This
Government is committed to making the necessary
social, economic and human capital investments in
Tamil Nadu — which has for many years been a leading
State on several socio-economic indicators in India —
into a poverty-free, prosperous State that offers equal
                               5



opportunity to all and upholds social justice, and to
propel the State into a 1.5 Trillion dollar economy by
the year 2036.


       6.      Taking this vision forward, the Government
will    implement       the    schemes    listed   in   the
Vetri Tamizhagam Vision Document, covering sectoral
priorities which inter alia include empowering women,
improving governance, providing housing for all,
ensuring safe drinking water, generating sustainable
livelihood opportunities, protecting social justice and
promoting green cover. The first budget of this
Government would lay the foundation for realising
these visionary programmes.


       7.      Immediately upon assuming office, our
Government released the 'White Paper on Financial
Management' clearly indicating that Tamil Nadu's debt
has doubled over the past five years, reaching about
Rs.10 lakh crore. Further, Tamil Nadu has recorded
fiscal indicators that trail behind other peer States,
including State's Own Tax Revenue as a proportion of
Gross       State   Domestic   Product   (GSDP),   Revenue
Deficit and Fiscal Deficit. Interest payments and
committed liabilities as proportion of the State's Total
Revenue Receipts, have been rising consistently,
                                  6



leaving limited fiscal space for new schemes and
programmes.


      8.      In these challenging circumstances, this
Government, having been elected by the people, is
working on fulfilling its commitments to the public in
a phased manner, while also taking various measures
to recover the State from tight fiscal position. Firstly,
the practice of requiring mandatory submission of
unnecessary        certificates   by    contractors      in   public
tenders that had made tenders non-competitive; has
now been abolished by this Government, thus bringing
transparency        to    tendering          process.    Secondly,
Government has discontinued the prevailing system of
restricting   tender     eligibility    to    department's own
registered     contractors;           and     now,      contractors
registered with any Government department may bid
for tenders issued by any other department, subject
to the prescribed pre-qualification criteria. Thirdly, to
encourage young entrepreneurs and small businesses
to bid for Government tenders for the first time,
eligibility criteria for low-value procurements have
been relaxed, giving new and emerging contractors
easier access to Government tenders. The resulting
increase in competition is expected to bring greater
efficiency    to    procurement         and     reduce     fruitless
expenditure. I am happy to inform this distinguished
                                 7



House that these initiatives have already begun to
yield    positive    results,   delivering   significant    cost
savings for the State.


        9.    Before    our     Government      had    assumed
office, a significant portion of tender’s estimates were
being cornered by few individuals and certain political
parties. Our Hon'ble Chief Minister has achieved an
unparalleled        milestone    by   resolutely      putting   a
complete end to this practice. He has also changed the
earlier procedure of approval at the Government’s
level for planning permission for multi-storied and
high-rise apartment buildings. These approvals can
now      be   obtained        from    Chennai      Metropolitan
Development Authority itself by delegation of powers,
thereby eliminating the corruption that prevailed in
the earlier process. Our Hon'ble Chief Minister remains
steadfast in his resolve: "We will not touch a single
paisa of the people's tax money. We will not
allow anyone to touch it. If touched, we will not
spare them. And we will not spare those who
have touched it in the past". He stands unshakeable
in this resolve and seeing him and hearing his name,
we witness corrupt individuals fleeing in fear every
day.
                                     8



      10.     While         establishing          transparency           and
integrity     in    tenders      and      project        approvals,      our
Government           is    now    also          undertaking           various
measures for additional revenue mobilisation. As part
of these efforts, Government has recently levied an
additional privilege fee on liquor manufacturers. This
is expected to mobilise an additional annual revenue
of up to Rs.1,000 crore to the exchequer. Government
is also leveraging Information Technology through
initiatives such as 'Faceless Assessment' under the
Goods and Services Tax, 'Faceless Registration' in the
Registration              Department             and            end-to-end
computerisation in monitoring mining activities. These
initiatives        are    together        expected         to     generate
additional revenue of approximately Rs.15,000 crore
for   the          Government            that     will     enable         the
implementation             of     many           welfare          schemes
successfully.


      11.     To achieve growth in revenue receipts in
tandem with economic growth, to expand revenue
streams sustainably and to suggest measures to
increase the State's tax and non-tax revenue, the
Government          has     recently       constituted          an    expert
committee on 'Revenue Augmentation', headed by
former      Deputy         Chairperson          of   Union           Planning
Commission, Thiru. Montek Singh Ahluwalia, along
                              9



with five other members. Through this Committee,
Government aims to strengthen the State's fiscal
autonomy    and    generate       the   financial    resources
necessary to fulfil its socio-economic development
commitments.


School Education

      12.   வேடில் விழுச்பெல்வம் ேல்வி பயொருவற்கு
            ைொடல்ல ைற்மற யமவ
                                               (குறள்-400)

            Learning is excellence of wealth
            that none destroy; To man nought
            else affords reality of joy
                                        (Kural-400)


      Education alone is the finest and indestructible
wealth for an individual. Our Hon’ble Chief Minister
have honoured those individuals who possess the
great wealth of education through certificates of merit
and   scholarship.    The     Government,           under    the
leadership of our Hon'ble Chief Minister, administers
Government schools in which more than 43 lakh
students are enrolled. Ensuring a clean and safe
learning environment in these schools is essential for
quality education and the well-being of students.
Currently, there is no integrated system in place to
provide professional cleaning and security services in
                                      10



Government schools. Taking this into consideration,
the Government is set to implement the 'Super Clean
Super Campus' Scheme. Under this scheme, daily
cleaning activities, maintenance of drinking water
facilities and toilets, and 24-hour security for school
campuses will be ensured, delivering Super Safety,
Super Students and Super Campuses under our
Super      CM's       governance.          This    scheme       will   be
implemented in 10,000 schools in the first phase,
with an allocation of Rs.139 crore in the Revised
Budget Estimates for 2026-27.


         13.    This     is    a    Government           led    by     our
Hon'ble Chief Minister, the beloved Thaai Maaman
of the children of Tamil Nadu. This Thaai Maaman
and his Government recognise that quality educational
institutions are just as essential as quality education
itself    for   the    children of         Tamil    Nadu. With         the
objective       of      modernising         Government           schools
across     Tamil       Nadu     and     providing       the    necessary
infrastructure         facilities     based        on   recommended
norms, ‘Palli Niraivu Thittam’ will be introduced.
This scheme will cover a total of 3,734 schools,
including       2,514         primary      schools,       365    middle
schools, and 855 high and higher secondary schools,
at an estimated cost of Rs.2,132 crore. An amount
                                      11



of Rs.300 crore is allocated for this scheme in the
Revised Budget Estimates.


      14.        With the objective of providing quality
education to academically talented students from
socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds, the
Government              will        establish      'Perunthalaivar
Kamarajar             Schools       of     Excellence'    as    modern
residential institutions. These schools will cater to
students from Classes IX to XII and will provide
education, food, boarding, textbooks and uniforms
free of cost. An amount of Rs.125 crore is allocated for
the infrastructure development of these schools in the
Revised Budget Estimates.


      15.        In     a        rapidly     changing,        globalised
technological era, it is imperative that the school
education curriculum be reimagined as experiential,
inquiry-based, holistic, futuristic and competency-
driven. A dynamic and progressive curriculum that
focuses      on       critical    thinking,     creativity,    financial
literacy, gender equality, environmental awareness,
digital   competence,             preparedness      for   competitive
examinations and global citizenship is necessary to
prepare future-ready children. To make Tamil Nadu a
leader      in    learning         outcomes,      an      amount     of
                                         12



Rs.25 crore is being allocated towards revision of
the School Education Curriculum.


        16.     "Say     No         to        Drugs"    has    been      the
unwavering message of our Hon'ble Chief Minister,
who       has     consistently                urged    the     youth       to
"Choose         Sports      over          Drugs,"      recognising       that
the vision of a drug-free Tamil Nadu must begin
in our schools. In keeping with the timeless wisdom
of Avvaiyar's Aathichudi, "Ilamaiyil Kal," children
must be made aware from an early age of the dangers
of     narcotic    drugs       and        psychotropic        substances,
alongside preventive education against substance
abuse. Accordingly, Anti-Drug Clubs and student
volunteer groups will be established in schools as part
of     this   initiative.      To    strengthen         awareness        and
facilitate timely reporting, the 10581 helpline number
will     be     prominently           displayed        on     all    school
campuses. Further, the Government has developed
the 'Drug-Free Tamil Nadu' mobile application,
enabling students and teachers to confidentially and
securely report information relating to drug trafficking
and substance abuse. An amount of Rs.7 crore has
been      allocated      for        the       implementation        of   this
initiative.
                               13



      17.     With the aim of transforming Tamil Nadu's
Public Libraries into state-wide digital libraries that
function as learning and innovation hubs — featuring
digital     knowledge,     universal     membership,         24x7
internet and mobile access, digital content, free
Wi-Fi, and co-working spaces at the 38 district central
libraries — this Government allocates Rs.10 crore
towards the redesign of Public Libraries.


      18.     Modern, branded bicycles equipped with
helmets      and   water   bottles     will   be   provided    to
approximately 5.32 lakh Gen-Z students studying in
Class XI across Government and Government-aided
schools in the current academic year. An estimated
amount of Rs.277 crore is allocated towards this
scheme. Our Hon'ble Chief Minister, deeply loved by
Gen-Z, is firmly committed to nurturing them into a
finest generation. This scheme reflects his vision and
commitment.


      19.     In   the     Revised      Budget        Estimates,
Rs.44,527      crore     has   been       allocated     to    the
School Education Department.


Higher Education

      20.     Tamil Nadu strongly opposes the NEET
examination. Various irregularities and question paper
                                   14



leaks in the NEET examination at the national level
have severely affected the higher education prospects
of   the      next     generation.          The    Government       of
Tamil Nadu therefore urges the Union Government to
immediately cancel the NEET examination system and
revert to medical education admissions based on the
earlier system of Class XII public examination marks.


        21.    A laptop has become an indispensable
information technology device for students pursuing
higher education. In today's rapidly advancing digital
era, laptops are invaluable assets for students to
sharpen       their    technical      expertise,       undergo    skill
development training, and make effective use of their
time.      Recognising        this,        our    Government      will
implement the 'Vetri Laptop Scheme' for college
students. With an allocation of Rs.2,000 crore, this
initiative aims to equip students with laptops as an
essential learning resource.


        22.    Guided     by      the       timeless    wisdom      of
Naaladiyar, "Knowledge is boundless, learning
time is short," it is our solemn duty to ensure that
no   student's         learning       is    constrained     by     the
unaffordability          of        decent          accommodation.
To   transform        student     accommodation          across   the
State, our Government will establish the ‘Tamil Nadu
                                15



Student Housing & Infrastructure Corporation’
(TNSHIC) as a dedicated Special Purpose Vehicle,
with an initial equity infusion of Rs.10 crore. Under the
flagship      'TN-SUDAR'             (State          Upgradation,
Development       and       Advancement              of    student
Residences)       initiative,        we       will        construct
200 Integrated Student Hostels delivering 1 lakh
modern     beds    across       major     educational        hubs.
This project will be executed through a de-risked
Public-Private Partnership (DBFOT) model, with an
estimated capital outlay of Rs.3,200 crore, supported
by a 20 per cent State Capital Construction Grant of
Rs.640 crore, phased over the next two fiscal years.
It will replace segregated housing with integrated,
high-amenity         campuses             featuring           fully
air-conditioned study hubs, 24x7 security, hygienic
kitchens and an automated allocation framework
designed to ensure diversity and social parity. In the
years to come, TN-SUDAR will help integrate youth
across diverse communities and faiths.


     23.   A specialised Government Law College,
offering advanced legal education on par with a School
of Excellence in Law, will be established in the
academic year 2027-28 at Madurai, with an intake of
300 students.     In the Revised Budget Estimates,
                              16



Rs.8,393 crore has been allocated to the Higher
Education Department.


Labour Welfare and Skill Development

       24.   To reduce the demand on petroleum based
products and to help reduce environmental pollution,
mechanics who currently service fossil-fuel-based
vehicles, will be trained in the maintenance of electric
vehicles and batteries, enabling them to service it
well. Over the period of next five years, 22,500
persons,     including     12,500    mechanics        currently
servicing fossil-fuel-based vehicles, will benefit under
this scheme. An amount of Rs.3 crore has been
allocated for this scheme in the current financial year.


       25.   With the aim of enabling Tamil Nadu youth
to secure emerging global job opportunities, a new
trade in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
will be introduced in Government Industrial Training
Institutes at an estimated cost of Rs.10 crore. This
trade will be introduced in 50 Industrial Training
Institutes over a period of five years, at the rate
of 10 institutes per year. Through this initiative,
24,000 students will receive training and employment
opportunities in Artificial Intelligence technology over
five   years.   Further,   five    new   Industrial    Training
Institutes will be established in Tamil Nadu at a total
                                17



estimated cost of Rs.90 crore, for which an amount of
Rs.7.5 crore has been allocated in the Revised Budget
Estimates.


       26.   Coaching     classes       are     currently    being
conducted     for    various    competitive        examinations
notified by State Government recruitment Boards,
through District Employment and Career Guidance
Centres. These classes will now be extended to
examinations        conducted    by     the     Staff   Selection
Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Board (RRB)
and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS).
An allocation of Rs.3.38 crore is being made to
conduct these additional coaching classes through all
District Employment and Career Guidance Centres.


       27.   To ensure that the youth of Tamil Nadu
are equipped with cutting-edge skills that make
them     employable      and         develop     entrepreneurial
interest,    this    Government          will    introduce     the
'Vetri Skill Training Scheme'. Under this scheme,
the Government will provide industry-aligned skilling
to 12 lakh college students and 1 lakh unemployed
youth in this year. In addition, internship training
programmes will be provided in collaboration with
Government and private industries to 20,000 youth in
the first phase. During the internship training period,
                                   18



graduates      and       those     with       vocational       education
qualifications will receive a monthly stipend. Priority
under this scheme will be given to youth from
families without permanent employment. A sum of
Rs.150      crore    is     being       allocated           towards     the
implementation of this scheme.


      28.     Recognising         Artificial        Intelligence      as   a
pivotal     driver   of     future       economic           growth     and
technological        innovation,             our      Government           is
determined to position Tamil Nadu at the forefront of
this digital    transformation. To ensure our                         youth
become        the       primary          beneficiaries          of     this
technology-driven          revolution,         I     am      pleased       to
announce       the        launch        of     the      AI     Industry
Development          Program.           Under        this    programme,
an expert committee of academic and industry leaders
will curate specialised AI curricula tailored to higher
education      tiers.      By      leveraging          state-of-the-art
training infrastructure and strategic partnerships with
premier institutions such as IIT Madras, we aim to skill
and   empower        5     lakh    youth           across    engineering
colleges, polytechnics and ITIs by 2031, building a
world-class, future-ready workforce.


      29.     In an era where Artificial Intelligence,
Robotics     and     other        emerging           technologies       are
                                        19



transforming the world, the Tamil Nadu School
Programme for Artificial Intelligence, Robotics
and Knowledge               of online tools                (TN        SPARK)
will   be    expanded         to        advance     this        vision.       The
programme will be extended during 2026-27 from the
existing     5,000    Government             schools       to        additional
2,600 schools. Under the newly restructured three-tier
framework,         students        of    Classes    6      to    8     will    be
introduced to the fundamentals of these emerging
technologies; students of Classes 9 and 10 will receive
intermediate-level training; and students of Classes
11 and 12 will be offered specialised elective courses.
This initiative will directly enable students to innovate,
develop      leadership        capabilities          and         strengthen
Tamil Nadu's position in the global knowledge-driven
economy.


       30.    In      the      Revised            Budget         Estimates,
Rs.2,022 crore is being allocated for the Labour
Welfare and Skill Development Department. Further,
Rs.17,150 crore is being allocated for the Special
Programme Implementation Department.


Youth Welfare and Sports Development

       31.    A     vibrant    sports        culture       serves         as    a
powerful     shield    against           social   evils.        To    promote
physical fitness, our Hon'ble Chief Minister himself ran
                                20



3 kilometre in the "Start Run, Stop Drugs" anti-drug
run held at Marina Beach in Chennai, running shoulder
to shoulder with thousands of youth to powerfully
convey this message.


       32.    With the message "Take Up Sports, Give
Up Drugs", this Government will launch an Integrated
Youth Development Programme that will instil sporting
discipline and civic responsibility among the younger
generation instead of drug abuse. By integrating
major youth organisations such as the National Cadet
Corps (NCC) and the National Service Scheme (NSS)
with    the    Health,       Police   and   Social   Welfare
Departments, our Government will channelize the
energy of the younger generation towards sports,
community service and well-being. Through the vision
of   "Sports    for   All,     Sports   Everywhere,"     the
campuses of our educational institutions will become
safe and completely drug-free havens.


       33.    With the objective of winning gold medals
at the Olympic Games, our Government is firmly
committed to elevating Tamil Nadu to the pinnacle of
the global sports arena. To nurture elite sporting
talent, 10 Olympic Centres of Excellence will be
established across the State, with an allocation of
Rs.50 crore. An allocation of Rs.5 crore is being made
                                 21



to     provide    world-class    training     to    select    school
students aged 8 to 18 who possess a passion and
aptitude for sports. A further allocation of Rs.22 crore
will    provide    financial    assistance     to   500      athletes
excelling in national and international sporting events.
To take traditional Tamil sports to the global stage, an
allocation of Rs.42 crore is made to conduct the
Tamil Nadu Rural Sports Competition, alongside
an     allocation    of   Rs.2        crore   to    upgrade      the
infrastructure of the Tamil Nadu Physical Education
and Sports University.


        34.   True sports development rests on twin
pillars: creating world-class champions, and fostering
a culture of everyday health and fitness among our
youth. Sports must begin right from our schools.
Currently, Government and Government-aided schools
allocate only two sports periods per week for each
class. To change this, structured sports and physical
exercise activities of one             hour   per day will be
introduced after school hours, with the required sports
equipment and facilities provided to all Government
and Government-aided schools. This will strengthen
students' physical fitness, cognitive development,
teamwork and discipline, while also helping identify
talent capable of achieving success at the state,
national and international levels. Further, to bring
                               22



sports to the common people, Neighbourhood Sports
Facilities, small gymnasiums and sports complexes
will be created in all blocks and urban local bodies. By
building decentralised sporting infrastructure within
walking distance of every young citizen's home, we
will build a healthy, active and disciplined generation.


     35.    In    the    Revised     Budget     Estimates,
Rs.1,051 crore is being allocated for the Youth Welfare
and Sports Development Department.


Social Justice

     36.    Our Hon'ble Chief Minister has always
proclaimed that action, and action alone, is what
matters, not just mere words. He has demonstrated
this through the functioning of the Social Justice
Department. A maximum of Rs.36 lakh per student
is provided under the 'Annal Ambedkar Overseas
Higher     Education     Scholarship       Scheme',      for
the benefit of students pursuing higher education
in   renowned     international     universities.   In   the
current year, this scheme will benefit 362 students
at an estimated cost of Rs.131 crore, the highest ever
sanction provided under the scheme.


     37.    The 'Vetri Entrepreneur Scheme' will be
implemented      to   ensure    sustainable   development
                                  23



and the upliftment of livelihoods among Adi Dravidar
and Tribal people. Under this scheme, beneficiaries
receive a capital subsidy and interest subvention on
the total project cost. In the current financial year,
an amount of Rs.75 crore has been allocated for this
scheme.


     38.     Through the 'Annal Ambedkar Business
Champions Scheme', support through loans and
capital   subsidy       is   being     provided    to   encourage
entrepreneurship         among       Adi   Dravidar     and     Tribal
people, ensuring their economic development and
self-sufficiency. An amount of Rs.165 crore is being
allocated towards this scheme in the Revised Budget
Estimates.


     39.     'Mannin          Magal        Thittam’      will      be
implemented to make Adi Dravidar and Tribal women
agricultural labourers into landowners. The scheme’s
beneficiaries will be trained in modern agricultural
technologies to adopt advanced farming practices and
improve      productivity.        In    the   Revised         Budget
Estimates, Rs.20 crore is allocated for this scheme.


     40.     The         'Iyothee          Thass        Pandithar
Habitation         Development             Scheme'       will      be
implemented        to    ensure      complete     socio-economic
                                    24



development in Adi Dravidar habitations, both urban
and rural. This scheme focuses on comprehensively
upgrading basic infrastructure in these habitations
and improving the living standards of the people
there. In the Revised Budget Estimates, Rs.300 crore
is allocated for this scheme.


      41.      The        'Aandror        Membattu           Thittam'
scheme      will     be    implemented          to   improve     basic
amenities in Tribal habitations, including houses,
roads,      drinking       water,      street    lights,    livelihood
schemes,       health      infrastructure,       education-related
scholarship        schemes,         and     school       and     hostel
improvement            works.          Under         this      scheme,
infrastructure in Tribal habitations will be upgraded
with an allocation of Rs.250 crore in the curren t
financial year.


      42.      Under the Special Components Plan for the
Adi Dravidar, an allocation of Rs.25,225 crore has been
made, while Rs.2,079 crore has been allocated under
the   Tribal       Sub-Plan      for     the    welfare     of   Tribal
communities.         In    the   Revised        Budget      Estimates,
Rs.3,937 crore has been allocated to the Social Justice
Department.
                                      25



Backward Classes, Most Backward                          Classes,    and
De-notified Communities Welfare

         43.    Our Hon'ble Chief Minister is someone who
has adopted Thanthai Periyar as his ideological leader.
Our leader is not someone who deceives people
in the name of social justice; rather he is someone
who has embraced it from the bottom of his heart.
That is why our Government, under his leadership,
remains firmly committed to upholding social justice
in Tamil Nadu, and is undertaking every possible
effort     to    safeguard          Tamil    Nadu's     69     per   cent
reservation. To ensure that students of the Backward
Classes,        Most    Backward           Classes    and     De-notified
Communities can pursue school and higher education
without hindrance funds have been allocated in the
Revised Budget Estimates; Rs.372 crore for pre-matric
and post-matric educational scholarships, Rs.77 crore
towards the tuition fees of students pursuing medicine
and dentistry under the 7.5 per cent reservation, and
Rs.13.41 crore as incentive to girl students to prevent
dropout from education.


Minorities Welfare

         44.    As          a      Secular           Social      Justice
Government, Tamil Nadu stands as a pioneering
State in protecting the rights of minorities. This
Government           will       continue    to   provide      educational
                                     26



scholarships to minority students. The subsidy of
Rs.25,000      provided         by        the   Tamil     Nadu      State
Hajj     Committee         to   first-time      Hajj     pilgrims    will
be increased to Rs.35,000. Additional Christian and
Muslim Women Aid Societies will be formed with an
allocation of Rs.1.05 crore, and a further Rs.34 crore
will be allocated in the Revised Budget Estimates to
improve the infrastructure of burial grounds and
Kabarsthans. The Government under the leadership of
our Hon’ble Chief Minister will never compromise on
the protection and welfare of minorities.


        45.   In    the     Revised        Budget       Estimates,    an
amount of Rs.1,700 crore has been allocated for the
Welfare of Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes,
and Minorities Department.


Welfare of the Differently Abled

        46.   Our     Hon'ble         Chief      Minister      sincerely
believes that differently abled persons are individuals
of great ability. Based on this Government's principle
of     equality,    "All    lives         are   equal     by     birth,"
Tamil Nadu stands as a pioneer among States in
ensuring the rights, equality and social security of
differently-abled persons.
                                  27



      47.      Financial assistance of up to 50 per cent of
the cost of equipment, or a maximum of Rs.30,000,
will be provided for purchasing modern AI-based
assistive devices, not covered under the existing
assistive devices distribution scheme, such as sports
prosthetic legs, myoelectric signal-operated upper
limb prostheses, other high-end assistive devices and
cochlear implant batteries.


      48.      Government institutions for persons with
intellectual disabilities under the name ‘Nambikkai Illam’,
will be established in Thanjavur, Tiruvannamalai,
Salem, Cuddalore and Virudhunagar districts. These
institutions     will   provide    special   education,   early
intervention services, rehabilitation and vocational
training to children aged 3 years and above. In the
initial stage, each institution will function as a day
school with 50 students, later being upgraded to
include residential facilities. For this, an amount of
Rs.4 crore is being allocated in the Revised Budget
Estimates.


      49.      In   the    Revised      Budget     Estimates,
Rs.1,485 crore has been allocated to the Department
for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons.
                               28



Social Welfare and Women Empowerment

       50.   Our     Hon'ble        Chief       Minister    always
stands by every women in Tamil Nadu as their
elder and younger brother. Marriage is one of the
most     joyous    occasion          in     a     woman's     life.
Our Hon’ble Chief Minister, who considers every
women in Tamil Nadu as a member of his own family,
will present an 8 gram gold coin and a silk saree
as ‘Annan’s Seer’ to them on their joyous wedding
day.    An amount of Rs.812 crore is allocated for
this scheme in the Revised Budget Estimates.


       51.   Through the Midday Meal Scheme, our
ideological leader Perunthalaivar Kamarajar alleviated
not only the physical hunger of students but also their
appetite for education. Our Hon'ble Chief Minister,
who holds deep and abiding affection for his student
friends, has honoured the legacy of Perunthalaivar
by naming the Chief Minister's Breakfast Scheme as
the     'Perunthalaivar         Kamarajar              Breakfast
Scheme'. Hon'ble Chief Minister has expanded this
scheme to cover students in Classes VI to VIII in
Government     and    Government-aided             schools.   This
scheme will be implemented from 17 th of September,
the birth anniversary of Thantai Periyar, benefitting an
additional 15.14 lakh students across 15,414 schools.
                                     29



An amount of Rs.710 crore is being allocated for this
scheme in the Revised Budget Estimates.


       52.        This   Government           is     committed         to
transforming Tamil Nadu into an elder-friendly State
by ensuring a life of dignity, graceful ageing and
comprehensive social security for senior citizens.
Integrated senior citizen homes, fully equipped with
essential amenities including qualified caregivers,
medical personnel and recreational facilities will be
expanded across all districts. In the first year, 12 such
homes will be established across 12 districts, catering
to    40   beneficiaries        each,      with    an   allocation     of
Rs.6.6 crore. In addition, senior citizen recreation
centres      featuring        libraries,    yoga     and   meditation
facilities, and indoor sports will be set up in 5 districts
in the initial phase, selected on the basis of senior
citizen population.


       53.        Our    Hon'ble      Chief        Minister      heartily
wishes       to    ensure     that    our    children,     the    future
generation, experience boundless joy and celebration
in their lives. Affectionately known to children as
"Vijay Mama," he remains constantly attentive to their
well-being. To ensure the Anganwadi Centres they
attend every day provide quality early childhood care
and    that        children     remain      happy       and      healthy,
                                 30



Government will construct 500 Anganwadi Centres
in    the     current    year     ensuring       the       availability
of essential basic amenities such as safe drinking
water, toilets and electricity.


       54.     To support the transgender community in
achieving socio-economic empowerment, skill training
will be provided to them in various income-generating
trades       through    Tamil     Nadu       Skill     Development
Corporation. Along with this, support through subsidy
linked bank credit facilities will be provided to them
towards       establishing       enterprises         and     securing
sustainable livelihood. They will also be assisted in
availing bank loans for self employment, with subsidy
support of upto Rs.50,000. 'Aran' shelter homes will
be    established       in   5   districts     to    provide      safe
accommodation, food, counselling and rehabilitation
support to transgender persons facing social and
family-level challenges. Additionally, short-stay home
facilities will be established in 15 districts to meet the
needs of transgender persons travelling to other cities
for   education,        employment,      medical           treatment,
examinations and training programmes.


       55.     In the Revised Budget Estimates, Rs.9,818 crore
is being allocated for the Social Welfare and Women's
Empowerment Department.
                                  31



Health and Family Welfare

       56.   Maternal and child healthcare is a core
pillar of Tamil Nadu's public health system. As per
the    recent   National     Sample        Registration    System
survey, Tamil Nadu's Infant Mortality Rate stands at
11 per 1,000 live births, amongst the lowest in the
country, which has been made possible through the
sustained implementation of public health schemes by
the Government. As evidence of this, 99.9 per cent
of deliveries in the State take place in hospitals,
with over 53         per cent occurring in Government
hospitals.      To      further        increase     deliveries     in
Government hospitals and thereby reduce the public's
out-of-pocket           healthcare         expenditure,          this
Government       will    implement         the    'Thai   Maaman
Thanga Mothiram Thittam'. Under this scheme,
every newborn delivered in a Government hospital will
receive a 1-gram gold ring as a gift from their beloved
Thai     Mamman,          the     Hon'ble         Chief   Minister,
commemorating the birth of the child and celebrating
the joy and significance of motherhood. A sum of
Rs.560 crore is provided in the Revised Budget
Estimates for this scheme.


       57.   For senior citizens, 1,000 Mobile Geriatric
Treatment Centres will be introduced in phases across
Tamil Nadu. Each mobile centre will function with a
                                         32



dedicated          team        of   a    doctor,         a    nurse    and      a
physiotherapist, visiting every Village Panchayat in
the State to conduct free health check-ups and
provide medicines for chronic conditions. An amount
of Rs.33 crore has been allocated for this scheme.


        58.     Maternity           care       and       support       centres
under the name 'Thai Care' will be established across
the State for pregnant women, who can stay at
these     centres         to    receive       care       as    their   delivery
date approaches and benefit from the facilities. Free
meals,        medical          support        and    continuous           health
monitoring will be offered at these centres, with an
allocation of Rs.23 crore.


        59.     To ensure access to specialised medical
care for people in remote and rural areas, the
Government will establish a Telemedicine System
based on a 'Hub-and-Spoke' hospital model. Five hubs
staffed       by    specialist          doctors      will      be   linked     to
200     spokes        at        Primary        Health          Centres        and
Government hospitals through an online network.
Over    the        next    five     years,      this      network      will    be
progressively expanded to a total of 1,000 hubs and
spokes. A sum of Rs.18.5 crore is allocated in the
Revised        Budget           Estimates           to        establish       this
telemedicine network.
                                       33



        60.   The        Government              will    also      establish    a
'Hub-and-Spoke' medical system for cancer care,
transforming        the         cancer      care         hospital      into    an
institution of State importance and an advanced
treatment centre. Five zonal cancer care hospitals
will be established as primary points of contact for
patients      and        will   also     undertake             research       and
development activities in cancer care. A sum of
Rs.10    crore      is     allocated        in    the        Revised    Budget
Estimates for the preparation of a Detailed Project
Report for this initiative.


        61.   Ensuring           an      uninterrupted              supply     of
essential     medicines          is    critical         to   the    continuous
treatment of NCD and cancer patients. With increased
screening and early detection, the number of patients
requiring regular treatment for hypertension, diabetes
and cancer is steadily rising. To meet this rising
demand and ensure uninterrupted medicine supply,
the   financial      allocation          for      medicines         has   been
increased by Rs.100 crore by the Government in the
Revised Budget Estimates.


        62.   In the Revised Budget Estimates, Rs.23,357 crore
is being allocated for the Health and Family Welfare
Department.
                                       34



Co-operation

         63.        In accordance with the Kural, "They alone
live who live by the plough," our Government
had announced the scheme to waive loans obtained
by     farmers         through       co-operative     societies,    with
the objective of protecting farmers' livelihoods and
reducing their debt burden. Under this scheme, a
100 per cent crop loan waiver was granted in full
to farmers who had obtained crop loans of up
to Rs.75,000 through co-operative societies, and a
crop         loan    waiver    of    Rs.35,000      was     granted   to
other farmers. The Hon'ble Chief Minister has ordered
the      waiver        of    agricultural     loans   amounting       to
Rs.5,932 crore, benefiting 14.43 lakh farmers, with
this crop loan waiver being credited to the accounts
of     all    eligible      farmers.    Beyond      these      measures,
this         Government,            under     the     leadership      of
our Hon'ble Chief Minister, will remain steadfast in its
commitment to the welfare of the farmers.


         64.        In the Revised Budget Estimates, Rs.8,028 crore
is being allocated for the Co-operation Department.


Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare

         65.        The Southwest Monsoon did not bring
normal          rainfall      this     year     due       to     weather
                                         35



phenomenon, resulting in insufficient water storage at
the    Mettur       Dam.      As     a        result,      the     dam        could
not    be     opened       for     irrigation         on     the    scheduled
date     of    12th    June.       Taking         cognisance           of        this,
our    Hon'ble         Chief        Minister            sanctioned                the
'Kuruvai Package Scheme' at a total outlay of
Rs.134 crore, to encourage paddy cultivation in
both     delta      and     non-delta           districts        and      ensure
no reduction in paddy production during the Kar,
Kuruvai and Sornavari seasons. This scheme includes
components             such          as          mechanical                 paddy
transplantation,          direct         seeding        of       paddy,          seed
production incentives, and the distribution of paddy
seeds,        liquid      bio-fertilisers             and        micronutrient
mixtures.


       66.      An amount of Rs.7,432 crore for electricity
subsidy       for   farmers         is        being     allocated        in       the
Revised Budget Estimates. In the Revised Budget
Estimates, Rs.14,984 crore has been allocated to the
Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department


Animal Husbandry

       67.      The    Animal            Husbandry           sector         is     an
important component of the agricultural economy,
promoting rural           development,                nutritional      security
and economic growth. In the current financial year,
                                   36



under the 'Vetri Magalir Goat Rearing Scheme',
five     goats     or   sheep     will    be    provided     with    a
100 per cent subsidy to destitute widows, deserted
women,        transgender       persons        and   persons      with
disabilities living in rural areas, benefiting about
30,000 eligible persons. An amount of Rs.110 crore
is allocated for this in the Revised Budget Estimates.


        68.    A total of 41 new buildings required for
veterinary       hospitals      will     be    constructed   at     an
estimated cost of Rs.47 crore. To meet the medical
treatment needs of livestock, 25 veterinary hospitals
will be upgraded into veterinary polyclinics, and
210 veterinary dispensaries will be upgraded into
veterinary hospitals, at an allocation of Rs.40 crore.
Further, 143 new mobile veterinary units will be
established at an estimated cost of Rs.35 crore.


        69.    This Government recognises that the loss
of     livestock   to   unforeseen        mortality,   disease      or
disaster causes great financial stress on farmers. To
provide financial protection, this Government will
introduce a new livestock insurance scheme named
'Kaalnadaigal Kaappom'. A financial allocation of
Rs.31 crore is made for the implementation of this
scheme.
                                    37



        70.     The     cost   of    high-quality     fodder    is   a
significant      part     of   the       economics    of    livestock
maintenance. With the objective of ensuring that
farmers receive quality feed at a lower price, our
Government will establish fodder seed banks and
depots across the State at an estimated cost of
Rs.6.70 crore. Further, an amount of Rs.13 crore is
being allocated to promote green fodder cultivation,
improve the use of chaffed fodder, and restore grazing
lands         through     community            participation.     This
Government's care and compassion extend even to
voiceless living beings, unlike other governments that
neglect even the needs of people.


Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare

        71.     After    Puratchi        Thalaivar,   our    Hon'ble
Chief Minister is the only leader who has truly
championed the cause of fishermen and held them
close    to     heart.    This      Government        continues      to
implement various welfare schemes to protect the
livelihood of fishermen, taking focused action to
develop the sector in every way, including providing
relief during fishing lean and ban periods, subsidised
diesel and kerosene, and essential and sustainable
infrastructure        such     as    fishing    harbours,    landing
centres and fish farms, along with groynes and
seawalls to prevent coastal erosion in fishing villages.
                                38



       72.   The State Government has been providing
lean-period fishing assistance of Rs.6,000 per family
to fishermen engaged in traditional fishing activity.
This    Government        will        now    increase   this
assistance from Rs.6,000 to Rs.7,000 per family,
benefiting        1.93   lakh        traditional   fishermen
families, with an allocation of Rs.135 crore for this
scheme.


       73.   To encourage traditional fishermen to take
up deep-sea fishing, financial assistance in the form
of an interest subsidy will be provided to those
purchasing deep-sea fishing boats equipped with
modern processing facilities. For this purpose, an
amount of Rs.12 crore is allocated in the current
financial year.


Dairy Development

       74.   Tamil Nadu holds a leading position at the
national level in milk production and procurement.
To further increase milk production and secure the
livelihood of women living in rural areas, milch cows
will be provided at no cost to 10,000 eligible women
every year. For this, an amount of Rs.57 crore has
been allocated in the Revised Budget Estimates.
                                   39



      75.     In       the    Revised       Budget           Estimates,
Rs.4,880 crore has been allocated to the Animal
Husbandry, Dairying, Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare
Department.


Industrial Development

      76.     The Government aims to drive Tamil Nadu's
Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to a 1.5 Trillion
US   dollar     economy       by    2036,       and     is   committed
to   building      a   friendly    ecosystem          that    promotes
industrial growth, attracts investment, and generates
significant employment opportunities for the youth of
the State. Since assuming office, our Government has
signed seven Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs)
worth Rs.35,062 crore, with the potential to create
14,790 direct and indirect employment opportunities.


      77.     To encourage large-scale investments and
accelerate      industrial     growth      in   Tamil        Nadu,    this
Government will strive to set up more Multi Modal
Logistics       Parks        (MMLPs)       and        Dry     Ports    at
strategic locations, and to establish petrochemical and
ancillary industries. This Government will also explore
the possibility of setting up new ports in Tamil Nadu.


      78.     Tamil Nadu, one of the leading States in
industrial    and      economic         growth,       will   release    a
                                    40



new    Tamil        Nadu     Industrial           Policy        to     further
strengthen      this      position.        This    Policy       will    foster
innovation and technology-driven growth, support
emerging industry sectors, and drive sustainable
development and export promotion. The Government
will   also    create       the     Tamil         Nadu          Industrial
Capability         Directory,          a       comprehensive           digital
platform listing the State's manufacturing and supply
capabilities, enabling investors to understand the
depth of the local ecosystem.


       79.    To       further         enhance           Tamil         Nadu's
competitiveness,          the      Government            will     introduce
an Artificial Intelligence (AI)-powered investment
service      system       called       'Guidance          3.0',        making
all requisite information, clearances and services
available     seamlessly          on       a    single    platform         for
companies seeking to invest in Tamil Nadu. As a
key component of this initiative, the 'Tamil Nadu
Single Window Portal 3.0' will be implemented
in an upgraded form, enabling all statutory approvals,
clearances     and      no-objection            certificates         required
for establishing industries and investment projects
to be obtained through a unified interface. This will
make      setting    up    of     industries       and      investing       in
Tamil Nadu remarkably seamless, paving the way to
                               41



attract   new   investment       and   accelerate     industrial
growth.


       80.   The    global     Tamil    diaspora,     with    its
long-standing ties to Tamil Nadu, holds immense
potential in talent, investment and entrepreneurship.
To channel this goodwill into productive investment,
a 'Non-Resident Tamil Investment Facilitation
Desk' will be established within Guidance, to facilitate
and promote investment by the global Tamil diaspora
in the State.


       81.   With the objective of ensuring balanced
and    equitable    industrial      development      across   all
regions of Tamil Nadu, SIPCOT will establish new
industrial parks in industrially backward districts,
based on district-specific industrial development plans
and each district's sectoral strengths. These parks will
be    developed     with    state-of-the-art   infrastructure
suited to investors' needs, at an estimated cost of
approximately Rs.3,200 crore over the next five years.


       82.   Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli, in southern
Tamil Nadu, will be declared as a 'Space Industrial
Investment         Zone',    anchored     by   the    strategic
significance of the spaceport at Kulasekarapattinam.
This is expected to bring about a major leap in the
                                42



industrial growth of the southern region. To provide
unparalleled infrastructure and technological support
to    private    enterprises,        startups    and     research
organisations within this zone, the State Government,
in collaboration with IN-SPACe, is establishing an
advanced        'Space   Vehicle        Common         Technical
Facility'.


       83.   India's first dedicated AI and Innovation
city, named       'Arivagam', will be           established       for
Artificial Intelligence and deep tech development, with
facilities including an AI university, an international
skill development centre, a semiconductor hardware
testing lab, multi-domain innovation incubators and
modern residential infrastructure. It will serve as a
dedicated ecosystem bringing together AI companies,
deep-tech startups, quantum technology ventures,
enterprise capability centres, research institutions
and    Government        AI   initiatives,      equipped         with
advanced         compute      infrastructure,          specialised
facilities, a skilled workforce, and a collaborative
innovation      environment.     Feasibility     study    will    be
undertaken at an estimated cost of Rs.5 crore for this
project.
                                   43



        84.    In     the      Revised       Budget    Estimates,
Rs.4,414 crore is being allocated for the Industries,
Investment Promotion and Commerce Department.


Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises

        85.    Tamil Nadu ranks third at the national
level, with 43.47 lakh registered Micro, Small and
Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Capital subsidies and
interest subsidies are provided to new entrepreneurs
under various schemes. In this financial year, an
amount of Rs.225 crore is allocated under the Tamil
Nadu Women Entrepreneurs Empowerment Scheme,
and Rs.352 crore under the Capital Subsidy Scheme.


        86.    To promote environmentally sustainable
steel    production      and    mitigate      the   environmental
impact    of     steel   rolling    mills,    the   'Green   Steel
Production          Initiative'     will     be   implemented   at
an estimated cost of Rs.300 crore over the next
five    years.      In   the    Revised       Budget   Estimates,
Rs.60 crore is allocated for this scheme.


        87.    In     the      Revised       Budget    Estimates,
Rs.2,142 crore is being allocated for the Micro, Small
and Medium Enterprises Department.
                             44



Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi

     88.    Tamil Nadu is one of India's leading textile,
apparel, handloom, handicraft and manufacturing
hubs. Yet the State does not have a single dedicated
institution integrating design education, innovation,
research, product development and entrepreneurship
development for the textile, apparel and handicrafts
sectors. Artisan communities and talented students in
rural areas across Tamil Nadu also face significant
challenges in accessing premier national-level design
institutions, owing to limited opportunities, financial
constraints,    and   lack   of    access   to   specialised
educational avenues. To bridge these gaps, with the
active participation of industry and academia, the
'Tamil Nadu Institute of Design' will be established
as an institution of State importance. This institute
will be established at an estimated cost of Rs.60 crore.
A detailed project report for its establishment will be
prepared.


     89.    Technical textiles is currently one of the
emerging       sectors,   offering     opportunities     for
innovation, value addition, exports, and high-skilled
employment       across   fields    including    healthcare,
automotive, construction, agriculture and defence.
Although Tamil Nadu is one of India's leading textile -
producing States, this sector's contribution to overall
                                   45



textile production remains low, owing to limited
awareness of technical textiles and challenges in
accessing     international          expertise      and       advanced
technologies. To bridge this gap, the Technical Textiles
Transformation Scheme for Entrepreneurs will be
implemented          in    collaboration      with      international
educational     and        research      institutions,        with   the
financial assistance from Tami Nadu Technical Textiles
Mission. Through this scheme, entrepreneurs, Micro,
Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), and textile
manufacturers will receive international exposure,
technical     training,       technology          transfer,     market
intelligence,        innovation         support      and      business
mentorship      to    facilitate     their   transition       into   the
technical textiles sector.


     90.    The 'Tamil Nadu Palmyra Development
Corporation' will be established with an allocation of
Rs.16 crore this financial year. This fund will support
initiatives such as neera processing, palm jaggery
production, and the export of value-added palm
products, protecting the livelihood of farmers who
cultivate Palmyra, the State Tree of Tamil Nadu.


     91.    Infrastructure facilities at Tiruppur will be
upgraded        in        multiple       phases        to      promote
environmentally           sustainable        textile        production.
                                46



For this purpose, the 'Tiruppur Textiles Technology
Centre' (TTTC) will be established with a financial
outlay of Rs.10 crore.


     92.    In      the   Revised          Budget    Estimates,
Rs.1,678 crore is being allocated for the Handlooms,
Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department.


Artificial Intelligence, Information Technology and
Digital Services

     93.    Just     as   how        the   virtue   of   honesty
and integrity is important for an individual, it is
that important to be a technological power in our
times.     The     Information        Technology     sector     in
Tamil Nadu continues to witness strong and consistent
growth,    generating     IT   exports      worth   more      than
Rs.2.5 lakh crore annually and providing employment
to over 20 lakh persons, both directly and indirectly.
This Government will undertake several initiatives to
further promote and encourage the growth of this
sector.


     94.    Artificial Intelligence (AI) is no longer a
futuristic concept but a driving force improving the
everyday lives of our citizens. To make administration
faster, more transparent, more inclusive and more
accessible, this Government is committed to using
                            47



Artificial Intelligence responsibly. The Tamil Nadu
Artificial Intelligence Mission (TN AI Mission) will
be strengthened to encompass emerging technologies
such as Artificial Intelligence, Quantum Technology,
Animation, Visual Effects, Gaming and Comics, and
Extended Reality (AVGC-XR), with a specialised focus
on AI applications in health, agriculture, education,
citizen services, urban administration, social welfare
administration, and other needy departments.


     95.    To ensure transparency and accountability
in operations, and to deliver the services of various
Government departments to the people online, the
Government will upgrade all 'e-Sevai' centres to
e-Sevai    2.0 centres,     equipped    with   high-speed
internet connectivity and additional public welfare
services. The 'Namma Arasu' WhatsApp Chatbot,
which     currently    provides    76   services   across
20 departments, will be expanded to include 275 public
welfare services.


     96.    In   the   Revised    Budget   Estimates,   an
amount of Rs.398 crore has been allocated to the
Artificial Intelligence, Information Technology and
Digital Services Department.
                                 48



Energy

        97.    The power sector will play a vital role in
achieving the Government's vision of a 1.5 trillion
dollar economy by the year 2036. This Government is
committed to expediting the Udangudi Stage-I and
Ennore        SEZ    Thermal    Power      Projects,   which    will
together       add    2,640    MW     to   Tamil   Nadu's    power
generation capacity. The ETPS Expansion Project,
valued at approximately Rs.8,000 crore, is being
undertaken through the Public-Private Partnership
(PPP)     mode.        The     Vellimalai     Pumped        Storage
Hydroelectric Project, valued at Rs.5,050 crore, will
also be expedited. Recognising the importance of
Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in managing
peak power demand, this Government will issue a
New BESS Promotion Policy to facilitate private
investment in this sector and transform Tamil Nadu
into India's 'BESS Hub'.


        98.    The Government is actively implementing
its energy strategy with a focus on renewable energy.
A new 'Rooftop Solar Subsidy Scheme' will be
introduced in convergence with the 'Pradhan Mantri
Surya Ghar Muft Bijli Yojana'. Under this scheme, a
subsidy of up to Rs.1 lakh will be provided to domestic
consumers for installing solar panels, significantly
reducing their electricity bills and supporting the
                                    49



transition      to    renewable          energy.    An    amount        of
Rs.50 crore is allocated to implement this scheme.
A system for installing smart meters will also be
introduced for all consumers in Chennai city, as well
as for 50 lakh industrial and commercial consumers
across other parts of the State.


          99.   Tamil    Nadu's       peak      power     demand        is
projected to surpass 37,000 MW by 2035-36, requiring
accelerated          investment          in     power      generation,
transmission            and        distribution         infrastructure.
As    a    major     initiative     to    strengthen      the    State's
transmission         network,       the       Coimbatore-Ariyalur
765       KV    Transmission             Line      Project      will   be
implemented through the PPP mode at an estimated
cost of Rs.4,000 crore. Ultra-high voltage power
transmission capacity in Chennai and its surrounding
areas will also be strengthened, at an estimated cost
of Rs.1,390 crore. The Phase-II Green Energy
Corridor Project, valued at Rs.1,187 crore and crucial
to    evacuating        renewable         energy     from       southern
Tamil      Nadu,      will    be     expedited       alongside         the
Virudhunagar-Coimbatore 765 KV Transmission
Project, valued at Rs.1,640 crore. The Government
will also take steps to secure the financial assistance
required for the third phase of the Green Energy
                                  50



Corridor project, valued at Rs.6,884 crore, capable of
handling 11,760 MW of renewable energy.


      100. The Government will construct 178 new
sub-stations at an investment of Rs.1,543 crore to
strengthen        the    power       distribution    infrastructure.
Further, 40,000 old transformers will be replaced in
a phased      manner          at a    cost of       Rs.2,000 crore.
To   encourage          the   adoption     of   electric   vehicles,
20,000 public EV charging stations will be established
over the next five years under the PPP mode, with
an allocation of Rs.50 crore in the current financial
year. Government will extend subsidy to Resident
Welfare Associations (RWAs) for installing electric
vehicle charging stations in residential complexes,
with an allocation of Rs.5 crore for this purpose.


      101. In pursuance of the Hon'ble Chief Minister's
announcement,           an    amount      of    Rs.1,545   crore   is
allocated    in    these      Revised     Budget      Estimates    to
increase the free electricity entitlement from 100 units
to 200 units, for domestic consumers with bi-monthly
consumption of up to 500 units. For the subsidy
provided    to     electricity       consumers,       ranging   from
domestic      households             to   agricultural     farmers,
Rs.18,860 crore is allocated in these Revised Budget
Estimates. An amount of Rs.5,000 crore is being
                                   51



allocated    as     compensation           to    the       Tamil       Nadu
Generation and Distribution Corporation. In these
Revised     Budget          Estimates,          an      allocation       of
Rs.15,828       crore   has    been made             for   the     Energy
Department.


Housing and Urban Development

        102. To guide the future growth of the Chennai
Metropolitan        Area,      the        Chennai          Metropolitan
Development Authority is preparing the Third Master
Plan (2027-2046), covering an area of 1,189 sq.km.
Given the rapid expansion of the Chennai Metropolitan
Area,     the     Government            will     also      prepare        a
Comprehensive Master Plan for the expanded Chennai
Metropolitan Area, covering 5,904 square kilometres,
serving as a roadmap for its long-term growth and
transformation. This plan will be benchmarked against
global best practices and internationally acclaimed
metropolitan planning frameworks. The Government
has     sanctioned      a    sum     of   Rs.25       crore      for    the
implementation of this scheme.


        103. Planning         permissions            for    plots       and
buildings in Tamil Nadu are currently granted at
various     levels      by     the        Chennai          Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA), the Directorate of
Town and Country Planning, and Rural and Urban Local
                             52



Bodies.   An   AI-enabled     online     planning        approval
system, Single Platform for Efficient Expedited
Development (SPEED), will now be introduced,
integrating these agencies, including the CMDA, the
Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), and
local bodies, to provide planning permissions to the
public across Tamil Nadu in a timely and transparent
manner. An amount of Rs.40 crore is being allocated
for this purpose.


     104. The Government of Tamil Nadu is actively
implementing targeted welfare schemes to improve
the living conditions of the urban poor and address
the pressures of rapid urbanisation. These include the
construction of multi-storied tenements with basic and
public    infrastructure,    individual         houses     under
beneficiary-led      approaches,      and   livelihood       and
development       schemes.    Under       these     initiatives,
24,131 multi-storied tenements currently at various
stages of progress will be completed this year, and
construction    of    a   further     14,194      multi-storied
tenements will commence during the year. An amount
of Rs.1,253 crore has been allocated for this scheme.


     105. Ensuring        safe,     dignified     and     quality
housing for low-income families and young people
remains a paramount priority of this Government.
                               53



To     this   end,    the   Tamil     Nadu   Urban   Habitat
Development Board is launching a pilot initiative in the
Chennai Metropolitan Area titled the 'Metropolitan
Youth and Family Housing Scheme' (MY-HOME),
under which 1 lakh housing units will be developed
over the next seven years. This project is expected to
attract approximately Rs.15,000 crore in investment
through Public-Private Partnership (PPP), supported
by Rs.3,500 crore in Viability Gap Funding (VGF)
through the Tamil Nadu Shelter Fund. By combining
private investment with the Government's objectives
and introducing a Digital Rental Voucher system, this
scheme will make safe, dignified housing accessible to
low-income families and youth at prices suited to their
incomes, playing a crucial role in transforming the
Chennai Metropolitan Area into a city offering equal
opportunity, a high quality of life, and safe housing for
all.


        106. In      the    Revised     Budget   Estimates,
Rs.8,852 crore is being allocated for the Housing and
Urban Development Department.


Municipal Administration and Water Supply

        107. The next chapter of the State's growth
journey will begin in the urban areas of Tamil Nadu.
I am pleased to announce the 'Chief Minister's
                           54



Integrated Urban Development Mission', bringing
under one roof urban infrastructure, water supply,
underground     sewerage   systems,    integrated   solid
waste     management, city roads, urban       transport,
expansion of green spaces, protection of urban water
bodies, social infrastructure, the safety of women and
children, AI-driven e-governance, and a dedicated
Urban Public Health Improvement Mission, with the
objective of addressing gaps in urban infrastructure
and delivering a visibly better quality of life to every
citizen of our urban local bodies. By 2031, this Mission
will reshape the urban landscape, character and
functioning of Tamil Nadu's cities, positioning the
State as a national role model in urban governance.
An amount of Rs.2,117 crore has been allocated for
this Mission in the current financial year.


      108. The Greater Chennai Corporation serves
91 lakh people, ensuring the provision of basic
facilities and creating infrastructure that improves the
quality of life in the city. To improve urban transpo rt,
the   Intelligent Transport     Management    System   of
Greater     Chennai    Corporation,     developed      in
coordination with the Chennai City Police and the
Metropolitan Transport Corporation, is in its final stage
of implementation. A comprehensive street redesign
and urban mobility project will also be implemented,
                                     55



with    key      emphasis       on    pedestrian      infrastructure,
accessibility for all, and urban design enhancements,
including smart parking management at 20 locations
and the restructuring of roads in the Ambattur and
Guindy industrial estates. To expand Chennai's green
canopy      and     create   people-centric           public    spaces,
footpaths along major routes and residential zones
will also undergo greening and beautification.


        109. As part of the vision to transform Chennai
into    a     sustainable        and       disaster-resilient         city,
blue-green infrastructure projects will be undertaken
around water bodies across the city. The height of
retaining walls is being raised and chain-link fences
erected     to    expand     their        discharge    capacity       and
mitigate urban flooding, protecting environmental
resources        while    creating        sustainable    spaces        for
community use.


        110. The         Ring        Main      Pipeline        system,
connecting        all    major    drinking     water     sources        in
Chennai with drinking water distribution stations, is
being       undertaken       at       an     estimated         cost     of
Rs.3,108 crore, and is expected to be completed within
2030-31. This project will secure a reliable, equitable,
and round-the-clock drinking water supply across
Chennai city. This is the most fundamental promise
                                  56



every great city makes to its people: clean drinking
water, without exception, every single day.


     111. People-friendly streets will be developed in
all municipal corporations, transforming them into
modern       urban       thoroughfares         with     proper     road
connectivity, dedicated pedestrian pathways, separate
cycling lanes, well-connected cross-streets, junction
improvements, safe school access networks, and
modern LED street lighting.


     112. Our historic city of Chennai is one in which
many of us were born and raised, a city that has
embraced us and become an inseparable part of who
we are. It grieves many of us that the Adyar and the
Cooum, rivers that once met the drinking-water needs
of the city, have today been reduced to little more
than channels of sewage. Successive Governments
that held office in the past                   squandered several
hundred crores of the people's tax money in the name
of cleansing and beautifying the Adyar and the Cooum,
yet no meaningful change was ever brought in the
condition     of     these      rivers.        The    greatest     and
most ancient civilisations of the world, Harappa,
Mohenjo-daro,        the       Inca,    and     Mesopotamia,        all
flourished    upon       the    banks     of    great    rivers.   The
Government         led    by    our    Hon'ble        Chief   Minister
                               57



will strive with the utmost resolve to restore the
Cooum and the Adyar to their natural state. Rivers
such as the Cheonggyecheon in Seoul and the Kallang
in    Singapore    have,     through      river   rejuvenation,
become identities spoken of the world over. Global
tenders will be invited and a Detailed Feasibility
Report and Detailed Project Report will be prepared to
transform the Cooum and the Adyar into the very
identity of Chennai. The Government will ensure that
the public can boat upon the Cooum and the Adyar,
children can play in the waters, and people of every
age can exercise along the riverbanks while breathing
clean and unpolluted air.


       113. In     the      Revised    Budget       Estimates,
Rs.29,863 crore is being allocated for the Municipal
Administration and Water Supply Department.


Highways

       114. Road infrastructure is a key component of
the    State's    transport     system,       and    providing
world-class,     durable,    safe   and    sustainable   roads
remains a priority for the Government. Under the
Comprehensive                Road             Infrastructure
Development Programme, a fund of Rs.9,300 crore
has been allocated, covering the widening of state
highways into four-lane roads, construction of bypass
                                   58



roads, road safety works, pedestrian overbridges,
upgrading of panchayat and panchayat union roads
into other district roads, bridges, and the riding
quality improvement programme.


      115. The       'Safe     Roads         Mission'        will    be
introduced     to    strengthen          road    safety,     focusing
specifically    on     road    design,          construction        and
maintenance. The initiative will leverage AI for speed
and traffic enforcement, alongside dedicated road
patrols and advanced trauma care centres.


      116. Roads in Tamil Nadu have deteriorated due
to inadequate maintenance, resulting in potholes and
uneven surfaces that makes travelling on those roads
a challenge. To repair these roads, an allocation of
Rs.250 crore is provided in the Revised Budget
Estimates,     under       which        inadequately   maintained
roads will be taken up under the 'Performance-
Based Maintenance Contract'. Members of the
public may photograph and report any road defects
through the 'Namma Salai' mobile application, and
such defects will be rectified promptly.


      117. In        the     Revised         Budget        Estimates,
Rs.21,524 crore is being allocated for the Highways
and Minor Ports Department.
                                59



Transport

        118. The     Government       recognises      the    need
for modernisation of the fleet of the State Transport
Undertakings of Tamil Nadu. With this objective,
the government will operate electric buses under
the     Gross   Cost     Contract     model.       During     the
current financial year, 1,000 new air-conditioned
electric    buses       will    be      procured      for     the
Chennai Metropolitan Transport Corporation. A sum
of    Rs.500    crore     has    been     allocated     in    the
Revised Budget Estimates to provide electrical and
mechanical fixtures for these buses at the bus depots.


        119. A sum of Rs.7,675 crore has been provided
in the Revised Budget Estimates as subsidy to the
State    Transport     Undertakings,     Rs.2,650     crore    as
performance gap funding, and Rs.1,005 crore as share
capital assistance. In the Revised Budget Estimates,
Rs.13,561 crore is being allocated for the Transport
Department.


Metro Rail Projects

        120. Construction        of     Phase-II       of     the
Chennai Metro Rail Project, spanning 118.9 km across
three corridors at an estimated completion cost of
Rs.63,246 crore, is progressing in full swing. The
first stretch of Phase-II, from Poonamallee Bypass to
                                   60



Porur Junction, connecting to the existing Vadapalani
metro station and spanning 14.64 km across 11 metro
stations is scheduled to be commissioned for public
use shortly.


           121. The     following       Metro          Rail     projects,
recommended by the Government, are under the
active consideration of the Government of India:

   (i).         Chennai Airport to Kilambakkam

  (ii).         Koyambedu to Pattabiram via Avadi

  (iii).        Poonamallee to          Sunguvarchathiram                via
                Sriperumbudur

           The Government is pursuing all steps to obtain
early approval from the Government of India for these
additional      Metro    Rail     lines.    Government             is   also
pursuing        proposal    for     Metro       rail        from    Hosur,
Krishnagiri District to Bommasandra in Karnataka with
both       Government      of     India     and    Government             of
Karnataka.


Water Resources

           122. The     Government         of     Tamil       Nadu      will
continue to        safeguard the           State's rightful share
of inter-state river waters, its interests and rights
in water sharing. Tamil Nadu Government will ensure
timely        Cauvery    water      releases           in     accordance
                                 61



with established agreements, tribunal awards and
judicial directions. Tamil Nadu's water rights will be
protected     through     sustained      legal,       technical     and
administrative efforts, including opposition to projects
that may affect the State's entitlements, such as the
Mekedatu      Project,    and     the    State's        interests     in
inter-state    river     water        sharing     will     be       fully
safeguarded.     The      Government           will     also     pursue
the raising of the Mullai Periyar Dam water level,
implementation of the Anaimalaiyar and Nallar dam
projects,     and      the    early       execution            of    the
Godavari-Cauvery River Link Project, to strengthen
long-term     water      security      and     support         farmers'
welfare.


      123. Water         sources        are     the      lifeline     of
agriculture, yet various river interlinking projects
announced by previous Governments have progressed
at a slow pace, affecting agricultural productivity
growth. Recognising this, this Government will take
steps to expedite such river interlinking initiatives.
The Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar River Linking Project, will
commence in this year with an initial allocation of
Rs.150 crore. Further, an allocation of Rs.50 crore has
been provided for preparing Detailed Project Reports
for   the   Pennaiyar-Cheyyar,           Pennaiyar-Palar,           and
Tamirabarani-Vaippar            river         linking          projects.
                                 62



Accordingly, a total allocation of Rs.200 crore has
been made for the implementation and planning of
these river-linking initiatives.


       124. It is a matter of grave concern that the
lifelines of Tamil Nadu, the great rivers of Cauvery,
Vaigai and Tamiraparani, have been continuously
polluted due to direct discharge of untreated industrial
effluents, domestic sewage and dumping of solid
waste on river banks, resulting in severe pollution in
stretches       passing        through    industrialised     and
urbanised areas. To restore the purity of these rivers,
this   Government       will    conduct    detailed   feasibility
studies and prepare Detailed Project Reports covering
the installation of sewerage and effluent treatment
plants for liquid waste, comprehensive solid waste
management in rural and urban areas along these
rivers, riverfront development in urban areas and river
surface cleaning. An amount of Rs.25 crore is being
allocated for the preliminary and feasibility study for
this project.


       125. To        ensure       groundwater        recharge,
availability     of   fresh      water    for   irrigation   and
conservation of       water      during   the   monsoon,     this
Government will conduct detailed feasibility study for
the Construction of Barrages across the River
                            63



Cauvery, with an allocation of Rs.10 crore for the
feasibility study and project report. An additional
Rs.10 crore has been allocated for a feasibility study
and project report for Ecological Restoration of the
Cauvery Delta region.


     126. In    the      Revised   Budget   Estimates,
Rs.9,264 crore is being allocated for the Water
Resources Department.


Environment, Climate Change and Forests

     127. Mangrove forests protect coastlines from
erosion, cyclones, sea-level rise and other coastal
hazards, while conserving biodiversity, enhancing
fisheries   resources,    sequestering   carbon,   and
supporting the livelihoods of coastal communities.
This project will be taken up at an estimated cost of
Rs.40 crore to strengthen coastal ecosystems and to
mitigate the impacts of climate change. Mangrove
afforestation and restoration of degraded mangrove
forests will be undertaken over 2,500 hectares in the
districts of Cuddalore, Viluppuram, Chengalpattu,
Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur
and Kanniyakumari, under the 'TN-SHORE' project
through the Green Tamil Nadu Mission. An amount of
Rs.322 has been allocated for the implementation of
TN Shore Project.
                                    64



         128. A    comprehensive           human-wildlife-conflict
mitigation scheme will be introduced, incorporating
scientific measures such as hanging solar fences
and      steel    wire     rope     fencing,     community-based
protection of forests, appointment of forest protection
staff,     and      GPS-enabled            vehicles     for   conflict
management,              night     patrolling,        security      and
monitoring,        across    100     conflict-prone      villages    in
Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Erode, Krishnagiri,
The Nilgiris, Salem, Theni, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and
Tiruppur districts. An amount of Rs.20 crore has been
allocated for this in the current financial year.


         129. In     the         Revised      Budget      Estimates,
Rs.1,762 crore is being allocated for the Environment,
Climate Change, and Forests Department.


Rural Development

         130. The Government envisions a rural Tamil
Nadu with digitally empowered local bodies that build
self-reliant and resilient communities, sustainable
infrastructure that supports growth, and rising living
standards that ultimately eradicate rural poverty to
ensure a dignified livelihood for every family.


         131. The        foremost        among    the     challenges
prioritized by this Government is to ensure permanent
                              65



housing to homeless poor families in rural areas. Even
though      several   housing      schemes     have       been
implemented by the State and Union Governments
over the past thirty years, Tamil Nadu is yet to achieve
hut-free status. Insufficient funding, inclusion and
exclusion    errors   in   beneficiary   identification   and
scarcity of lands in rural areas remain key challenges
in this sector. To gradually resolve this issue, the
Government is launching a new State Housing Scheme
named the 'Vetri Veedu Thittam' exclusively for
Kutcha Hut dwelling families.


     132. Due to the lower unit cost fixed for houses,
genuine and highly deserving poor households are
being excluded from housing schemes. Only families
capable of bearing the additional expenses are being
selected. The Government has therefore decided to
increase the unit cost from Rs.3.1 lakh to Rs.5 lakh for
construction of Pucca houses to those living in Kutcha
huts under this new scheme. In the first year, 70,000
houses will be sanctioned at an estimated cost of
Rs.3,500 crore. The Rural Development Department
will conduct a fresh door-to-door survey to identify
eligible households.


     133. The Rural Development Department has
implemented a wide range of schemes over the years,
                             66



but overlap between these schemes and the absence
of   a     planned     approach       have    limited        their
effectiveness. To address this, the Government is
integrating     all   infrastructure      schemes     of      the
Department into a comprehensive scheme, the 'Tamil
Nadu      Village     Empowerment,         Transformation,
Rejuvenation Initiative' (TN-VETRI), which will
include separate sub-missions for Water Supply, Solid
Waste       Management,          Sanitation     and        Rural
Connectivity.


     134. To        strengthen    basic    infrastructure       in
Peri-urban Panchayats surrounding urban areas, an
exclusive     sub-scheme     under        TN-VETRI    will     be
implemented with an allocation of Rs.1,000 crore.
A further sub-scheme, with an annual allocation of
Rs.100 crore, will support the development of Hill Area
Village     Panchayats.    Overall,    TN-VETRI       will     be
implemented with an annual financial allocation of
Rs.6,000 crore, and will also converge with the needs
and resources of other departments and Government
of India schemes. A High-Level Committee, chaired by
the Hon'ble Minister for Rural Development and
Panchayat Raj, will oversee this coordination.


     135. The new sharing pattern under the recently
launched Viksit Bharat - Guarantee for Rozgar and
                                  67



Ajeevika Mission (Gramin) scheme has placed a
heavy     strain     on     State      finances,       requiring   an
unprecedented 40 per cent State contribution to be
accommodated within the State's resources. This
Government has already urged the Government of
India to reconsider this funding pattern. However,
given that the rural poor rely heavily on the Mahatma
Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme
for their livelihoods, the Government has already
announced the implementation of this scheme with a
total    financial        allocation        of    Rs.12,642     crore,
including an unprecedented State contribution of
Rs.5,057 crore.


        136. Further, to fulfil the Government's policy
of    providing      150     days      of        employment     under
the     guaranteed        rural   employment           scheme,     the
Government         will    implement        an     initiative   named
'Vetri 150', bearing an expenditure of Rs.100 crore
per annum to provide an additional 25 days of
employment to vulnerable and needy households who
complete 125 days of employment, thereby ensuring
150 days of work for these households.
                                 68



Women Self Help Groups

      137. Self-Help      Groups        in    Tamil     Nadu      have
developed   over        the    years     and      have       achieved
commendable status today. However, there is a need
to take them to the next level of growth                          and
transforming      them        into    micro-enterprises.          The
Government will therefore launch a new scheme, the
'Singappenngal           Valimaippaduthum                    Thittam'
under which an investment subsidy of Rs.5 lakh will
be    extended     to     every         SHG      enterprise       that
demonstrates             sustainable              entrepreneurial
performance.      Further        this    year,     a     target     of
Rs.38,000 crore has been fixed in the Annual Credit
Plan for disbursement of loans to SHGs.


      138. The existing system of sanctioning loans
and   subsidies   to     Self-Help      Groups        will   be   fully
computerised, with an integrated co-audit feature
ensuring seamless and timely transfer of funds to
beneficiaries without delay.


      139. In     the         Revised        Budget      Estimates,
Rs.39,609 crore is being allocated for the Rural
Development and Panchayat Raj Department.
                              69



Public Distribution System

     140. This Government will expand delivery of
essential commodities under the Public Distribution
System to the doorstep of senior citizens, persons
with disabilities, and vulnerable communities on a
priority basis. A sum of Rs.7.18 crore is being allotted
this financial year to implement this scheme.


     141. To       ensure   that   essential   commodities
distributed through the Public Distribution System
reach beneficiaries in the prescribed quantity and
quality, the Government will implement a pilot scheme
this year for the supply of packaged wheat flour
through the Public Distribution System. A sum of
Rs.18 crore is being allotted for this pilot, which will
be scaled up in due course.


     142. A     sum    of   Rs.14,000    crore   has   been
allocated for food subsidies in the Revised Budget
Estimates.    In     the    Revised   Budget     Estimates,
Rs.14,830 crore is being allocated for the Food and
Consumer Protection Department.


Law and Order

     143. This Government aims to build a society
entirely free from crimes against women and children,
and strictly adheres to a 'Zero Tolerance' policy
                             70



towards such crimes. In line with the Hon'ble Chief
Minister's announcement, the 'Singapenn Special
Task     Force'   has    been     constituted        to   enhance
women's security through women-centric policing,
emergency response, and proactive crime prevention.
An amount of Rs.354 crore has been allocated for the
necessary police force, infrastructure, equipment,
training, and operational requirements of this Task
Force.


       144. The Government is taking measures to
prevent drug trafficking, strictly enforce the law, and
raise public awareness. A total of 65 Special Task
force     for     Interdiction        of     Narcotics       and
Gangs (STING) units have been formed to detect
drug-related offences and take stringent action, w ith
one unit allocated to each of the 37 districts and
28 units in urban areas. Beyond conducting financial
investigations into drug trafficking, sale and misuse,
these units will also take strict legal action, including
the freezing of assets.


       145. To ensure a drug-free Tamil Nadu, this
Government will establish a 'Rehabilitation Fund',
with an allocation of Rs.70 crore, to be used primarily
for   rehabilitating    individuals        seeking    help   with
de-addiction from drugs and substance abuse.
                            71



      146. A    new    'Road     Safety   Policy'   will    be
formulated, focusing on five key pillars: institutional
framework, road design and engineering, traffic law
enforcement, emergency trauma care, and education.
An amount of Rs.200 crore has been allocated under
the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Accident
Relief Fund Scheme in the Revised Budget Estimates,
along with a further Rs.130 crore under the Road
Safety Fund for road safety works during 2026-27.


      147. Adequate residential quarters for police
personnel are essential to the effective management
of law and order and crime control. An amount of
Rs.431 crore is allocated for the construction of such
quarters in the districts, benefiting 5,000 police
families.


      148. In    the    Revised      Budget     Estimates,
Rs.17,290 crore is being allocated for the Home,
Prohibition and Excise Department.


Empowering Governance

      149.   Governance is at its best when decisions
are   made      promptly,      transparently,   and        with
unwavering integrity. Over the past three months,
Honourable Chief Minister has taken resolute steps to
clean, corruption free transparent administration.
                                  72



Government will take further steps to advance to the
next critical phase: empowering our public servants
with modern tools such as AI in governance to
enhance productivity and deliver seamless public
services.


        150. First,          dismantling             unnecessary
centralization through the delegation of powers to the
subordinates. By eliminating arbitrary bottlenecks
that once bred corruption, we ensure citizens receive
their rightful approvals without delay or harassment.
Second, digital workflows are being streamlined. To
ensure accountability, a Quality Assurance Audit Board
backed by AI will continuously monitor file flows and
decision quality, eliminating unjust rejections and
backlogs. Finally, we will turn technology into an ally
for   our   employees.        By       integrating   AI,   Agentic
workflows, and Speech-to-Text capabilities (Prompt),
employees will get automated assistance for routine
tasks    such   as     drafting,       summarizing    rules,   and
documentation, reducing the drudgery of manual
processing, and freeing our officers to focus on
informed, impactful decision-making.


        151. Our      goal   is   simple;    a   corruption-free,
transparent, clean and highly efficient administration
where technology serves the public servant, and the
                             73



public servant serves the people in delivering services
digitally, transparently in a time bound manner. To
transform   public   service      delivery   and    streamline
administrative workflows, a Governance Processes
Reforms Committee will be constituted under the
chairmanship of Chief Secretary. Bringing together
senior administrative leaders, industry transformation
experts,    and   academic        system     designers,    the
Committee will re-engineer bureaucratic processes,
eliminate redundant compliance, and build a modern,
technology-enabled,     citizen      friendly      (G2C)   and
business friendly (G2B) governance ecosystem in the
State.


     152. To ensure vacancies are filled on time,
honestly and transparently, an annual recruitment
planner will be published by all recruitment agencies.
Transparency in promotions and transfers will be
ensured through the Integrated Financial and Human
Resources Management System (IFHRMS). A Right to
Services Act will also be framed and passed, to ensure
that services reach every citizen, as a legal right, in a
timely manner.


Revenue and Disaster Management Department

     153. A revolving fund will be created with an
allocation of Rs.50 crores raised through corporate
                          74



social responsibility funds via an integrated end-to-
end online portal, to provide funds required by field
officers for rescue, relief and rapid response during
disasters. This will ensure that disasters are managed
effectively and applications processed expeditiously.


     154. Due     to    Super     El   Nino     weather
phenomenon, rainfall during the southwest monsoon
in June and July has been below normal. During this
prevailing dry spell, it is essential to strengthen
drinking water sources and stock fodder for cattle at
the block level. Taking this into consideration, our
Hon'ble Chief Minister has ordered the allocation of
Rs.340 crore from the State Disaster Management
Fund to ensure that daily lives of the public are not
affected.


     155. In    the    Revised    Budget      Estimates,
Rs.5,462 crore is being allocated for Social Security
Schemes and Rs.11,532 crore is being allocated for the
Revenue and Disaster Management Department.


Commercial Tax and Registration

     156. This Government firmly believes in a fair,
transparent and trust-based administration of the
Goods and Services Tax, recognising honest taxpayers
as true partners in the State's development. To further
                                    75



ease their compliance burden, Commercial Taxes
Department is transitioning to a service-oriented,
technology-driven,          faceless      approach          powered   by
non-intrusive verification. While remaining committed
to supporting and simplifying compliance for honest
taxpayers, firm, intelligence-led action will be strictly
reserved for wilful evaders alone.


      157. Recognising              the     vital     role       of   the
Registration Department as the public record office,
our Government is undertaking landmark reforms to
ensure     seamless,          convenient           and       hassle-free
registration     of    documents.          By     prioritising    digital
innovation and civic convenience, the Government
is   committed         to     making        property        registration
effortless and corruption-free, with the protection of
innocent        property           buyers         from       fraudulent
registrations         being    a     top        priority.     Necessary
amendments to Act and Rules, aligned with Supreme
Court rulings and best practices across leading States,
will be enacted to this end. 'Anywhere Registration'
will be a cornerstone of this reform, allowing citizens
to register documents from the convenience of their
homes.     In    a     phased       manner,         the     Registration
Department will transition to a completely paperless
and presence-less registration mode, using advanced
                                 76



digital authentication without compromising the legal
security or authenticity of any transaction.


        158. In     the    Revised        Budget      Estimates,
Rs.651 crore is being allocated for the Commercial
Taxes Department and Rs.475 crore is being allocated
for the Stamps and Registration Department.


Natural Resources

        159. This Government will take all necessary
steps to prevent illegal mining and quarrying in the
State    and      ensure   that       revenues      due   to    the
Government are collected without any leakage. In the
last 3 months, since this Government was formed,
1,307 vehicles have been seized for illicit mineral
smuggling, and 1,161 First Information Reports have
been filed. In a special drive against illicit mining,
431 quarries were inspected and violations were
detected in 155 cases and action is being taken against
these quarries as per law. A special task force has also
been formed to inspect crushing units and stockyards
across    the     State,   and    check     posts    have      been
established in border areas.


        160. To further strengthen mineral management
in the State, an end-to-end mineral management
system     with     real-time         monitoring     of   mineral
                              77



production and movement will be established. This
technology-driven,      transparent       and     integrated
framework will ensure sustainable extraction of the
State's mineral wealth and optimisation of revenue
while preventing illegal mining. District-level vigilance
and enforcement wings will also be established to
strengthen surveillance and prevent illegal mining.
An amount of Rs.3 crore has been provided in the
Revised Budget Estimates for 2026-27 to implement
this scheme.


     161. Granite polishing and design centres will be
established in Pudukkottai and Perambalur districts to
develop the granite industry in the region. A Detailed
Project Report will be prepared during the current
financial year. In the Revised Budget Estimates,
Rs.438   crore   is   being   allocated   for   the   Natural
Resources Department.


Welfare of Government Employees

     162. Government has launched the New Health
Insurance Scheme, 2026 for Government Employees
and their eligible family members, and Pensioners
(including spouses) and Family Pensioners, for a
period of five years from 01.07.2026 to 30.06.2031.
Under the new scheme, the basic sum insured has
been enhanced from Rs.5 lakh to Rs.7.50 lakh, and
                                78



coverage for specified illnesses has been enhanced
from Rs.10 lakh to Rs.12 lakh. The Corpus Fund for
rare and specified illnesses has also been enhanced
from Rs.10 lakh to Rs.15 lakh for employees. The
Scheme      covers    2,992     medical        procedures       and
46 specified illness procedures, through a network of
1,535 empanelled hospitals and Government Medical
Institutions. This     Government, committed to                 the
welfare of Government employees, has allocated
Rs.838 crore to implement this insurance scheme. In
the Revised Budget Estimates, Rs.47,240 crore is
being allocated for Pensions and Other Retirement
Benefits.


Administration of Justice

        163. The judiciary plays an indispensable role in
upholding the rule of law and ensuring the timely
delivery of justice. Recognising the need for modern
court     infrastructure   to        serve    the   public,     our
Government will revive the proposal for establishing
an Integrated Court Complex at Broadway, Chennai,
combining     160    courts,    at    an     estimated   cost    of
Rs.1,375 crore. A sum of Rs.10 crore is being allocated
for undertaking the preliminary steps for this project.
In the Revised Budget Estimates, Rs.2,486 crore
is being allocated for the Administration of Justice
Department.
                            79



Tourism

     164. Tamil Nadu’s rich heritage, vibrant culture,
and diverse landscapes make tourism a vital driver of
economic growth, employment generation, and local
empowerment. Investing in tourism strengthens local
livelihoods,   preserves    our   cultural        identity,     and
accelerates state wide infrastructure development.


     165. To ensure a reliable, long-term financing
mechanism for scaling up tourism infrastructure, this
Government      proposes     to      create        a    dedicated
Sustainable Tourism Development Fund. A Bill to
establish this statutory fund will be introduced in the
present   Assembly      session      to        enable   seamless
mobilization     of    resources,          catalyze        private
investments, and secure sustained funding for future
tourism initiatives across the State.


     166. Under       our   vision        to     elevate      iconic
landmarks to international standards, the Government
will comprehensively develop Mahabalipuram into a
global tourism destination. To realize this vision, we
are submitting a detailed proposal to the Government
of India under its scheme for iconic destination
development to secure a central grant of Rs.200 crore.
This strategic investment will upgrade world-class
                            80



visitor amenities, enhance connectivity, and cement
Tamil Nadu’s position on the global tourism map.


     167. To      promote        river   tourism   across
Tamil Nadu, an allocation of Rs.53 crore is being made
to develop key riverfronts across three major rivers:
along the Kaveri River from Hogenakkal to Srirangam,
along the Vaigai River in Madurai, and along the
Thamirabarani River from Papanasam to Tirunelveli.
Additionally, to popularize the rich culinary and artistic
heritage of our state, this Government will implement
a project to highlight local food tourism routes
through dedicated Food and Arts Festivals, supported
by an allocation of Rs.20 crore.


     168. Demonstrating our commitment to social
welfare and spiritual tourism, senior citizens will be
enabled to visit their chosen holy pilgrimage sites
every year with fully sponsored air-conditioned travel,
comfortable lodging, and quality meals, funded by an
allocation of Rs.20 crore in Tamil Nadu. Furthermore,
to cater to the growing influx of devotees, modern rest
houses will be established at Thirukkadaiyur, Nagore,
and Velankanni at an estimated cost of Rs.60 crore,
ensuring safe and comfortable accommodation for all
pilgrims
                             81



      169. Government       will   launch    'Tamil    Nadu
Eco-Tourism      Mission'     to   develop      and   expand
nature-based     tourism    circuits   and      destinations,
including trekking routes, wildlife safaris, birding and
boating trails, eco-friendly stays, and interpretation
and visitor centres. This Mission will be implemented
across the State's diverse landscapes, including forest
and   wildlife   areas,    through     active    community
participation, enhancing livelihood opportunities for
local and tribal communities while contributing to
forest conservation and fostering nature awareness
among the public. An amount of Rs.25 crore has been
allocated for this scheme.


Art & Culture

      170.   Tamil heritage and cultural sites along the
East Coast Road will be upgraded to showcase and
preserve the unique history and rich heritage of
Tamil people. An amount of Rs.5 crore is being
allocated for the preparation of Detailed Project
Report in the Revised Budget Estimates 2026-27.


      171. This Government will introduce a ‘Folk
Artists   Livelihood      Protection    Scheme’,       under
which 200 best-performing art troupes registered with
the Folk Artists Welfare Board will be selected each
year, providing them opportunities to perform for
                                  82



100 days. A sum of Rs.23 crore is being allocated for
this   scheme.     In    the     Revised      Budget       Estimates,
Rs.775 crore is being allocated for the Tourism, Art and
Culture Department.


Tamil Development

       172. Our Government remains steadfast in its
commitment        to    preserving         Tamil     heritage,    and
encouraging       young         talent.        To     foster     early
appreciation of classical literature, Government is
instituting an incentive award of Rs.5,000 each for
500 primary school students (up to Class 5) who
memorize     and       recite     300      Thirukkural       couplets.
Government is also enhancing financial support for
Tamil scholars and organizing state-wide essay and
elocution   competitions           for     college    students      to
commemorate the sacrifices of our Tamil language
martyrs.


       173. Furthermore,          to      honour     the   legendary
legacy of Quaid-e-Millat, a new award celebrating his
deep love for the Tamil language will be presented
annually on Thiruvalluvar Thirunaal.


       174. Further,       through          the      Tamil     Virtual
Academy,      a    Tamil         Large       Language          Model
(Tamil LLM) will be developed, AI-based language
                              83



technology    tools    will   be     deployed     for    official
Government communications, and, in collaboration
with   leading    universities,      a    dedicated     Artificial
Intelligence model for Tamil will be developed.


       175. Tamil      Nadu         has      world-renowned
archaeological sites and a cultural history and urban
civilisation spanning thousands of years. With the
objective of ensuring that students acquire both
academic and field knowledge, school students will be
taken on visits to the archaeological and heritage sites
across Tamil Nadu — including Keeladi, Adichanallur,
Kodumanal, Mayiladumparai, Sivakalai, Alagankulam,
Arikamedu, Saluvankuppam, and Kaveripattinam —
promoting experiential learning and strengthening
their understanding of the State's ancient history,
civilisation and cultural heritage. For this purpose, the
Government       allocates    Rs.One      crore   to    organise
educational tours for school students to archaeological
sites and institutions of higher education.


Hindu  Religious        and        Charitable     Endowments
Department

       176. Over the next five years, this Government
plans to undertake renovation works and perform
Thirukudamuzhukku (Consecration) at 3,000 temples,
restore 250 temple tanks, and repair 75 wooden
                               84



temple cars. The Government also plans to upgrade
basic amenities at temples receiving large numbers of
devotees, providing safe drinking water, restrooms,
bathrooms,    accommodation           and    other      essential
infrastructure.   Recognising        the    need   to    appoint
Trustees to temples, this Government, immediately
after assuming office, issued notifications for the
appointment of Trustees to 9,205 temples within a
short span, and action is underway to complete these
appointments.     With     a     budgetary       allocation    of
Rs.418 crore, restoration and conservation works are
also being carried out at 213 temples that are over
a thousand years old. Alongside various structural
reforms in the Department, the Government is paying
focused   attention   to       safeguarding      the    movable
and immovable properties of temples. In the Revised
Budget Estimates, Rs.708 crore is being allocated for
the   Hindu   Religious    and      Charitable     Endowments
Department.
                          85



                      PART B


      Finances of the State Government


Hon’ble Speaker,


   177.   In my speech so far, I have highlighted
the major Schemes of this Government.


   178.   Finally,   I    must      state   that   this
Government had presented the White paper on
States finances last month on 16th June, 2026,
clearly and faithfully bringing out the real fiscal
position of the State and the financial distress that
has resulted out     of   poor   administration and
leakages in the revenue collecting departments
and undertaking expenditures culminating in very
high borrowing by State Government and its
parastatal companies, namely, TNEB’s successor
companies,       TNCSC     and      State   Transport
Undertakings. The State has been borrowing
without reference to what the revenues can
sustain. While there is nothing wrong in borrowing
for investing in human and physical capital in the
State that act as drivers of economic and social
growth,   this   needs    to   be   accompanied     by
                              86



corresponding efforts in mobilisation of resources
that   could        cover    borrowings.          Previous
government failed to see this simple fact.


   179.     It let the revenue earning departments
to uncontrollably bleed, while letting a good share
of public money in works to be extracted out by
unscrupulous middlemen. Since, the formation of
our Government under the leadership of the
Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, we have
made continuous efforts to plug leakages in both
revenue and expenditure side, enabling the State
Government to create at least Rs.1,500 crore on
the revenue side so far, and we expect large fiscal
space creation on the expenditure side, due to
savings in the cost of procurement of goods and
services.


   180.     I must also reiterate what I said during
my presentation of the White Paper that this
Government under the visionary leadership of our
Honourable     Chief      Minister,    believes   that   the
welfare schemes such as scholarships and free
education      to     students,       subsidies   to     our
entrepreneurs        to     commence       business      and
                             87



manufacturing, PDS subsidies, free housing for
the poor, etc are not largesse, but are investments
in    human     and      social   capital   that    drives
consumption and growth in the economy in the
long run. In fact, this Government is continuing
most of the schemes for public welfare that has
been in existence for the last three decades and
plans to expand them further.               However, a
calibrated    balance      between     welfare     scheme
investments in human capital and investments in
physical capital and infrastructure is necessary.
These however require resources and fiscal space,
and without sustained effort by the Government in
this regard, it is impossible to sustain welfare
schemes.


     181.    As I have already mentioned earlier,
this Government has already taken action towards
mobilization of nearly Rs.15,000 crore through
various measures and has also constituted a high
level Revenue Augmentation Committee under the
chairman     ship   of   renowned     economist     Thiru.
Montek Singh Ahluwalia. We will also constitute a
similar high level Expenditure Reforms Committee
to advise the State Government on rationalising
                             88



expenditure by enhancing the productivity of the
service   delivery     apparatus     of    the     State      and
reviewing all welfare schemes by evaluating their
positive impact on the target beneficiary groups
and ensuring that all people who need State
intervention truly benefit. I must clarify here that
the   scope     of   the   Committee        would       not    be
restricted    to     reducing     expenditure,          but    to
rationalising      them,   which   would         also   include
expanding       welfare    schemes        that    have     good
positive externalities and benefits to the society
and the State in the long run.


   182.      The fiscal position of the State is in the
red, and we have been handed a treasury box that
is overburdened with debt and sub optimal income
with leaking holes. The repair has been started,
but would need at least two years to bring the
financial administration back to the track of fiscal
prudence. Under the leadership of our Honourable
Chief Minister, we have been successful in all our
previous ventures in political landscape, and we
will attain “Vetri” in this venture also. Tamil Nadu
will emerge as a State that has fiscally prudent
governance for balanced and inclusive economic
                               89



growth.      Unlike the previous government, which
focussed only on short term political gains with
the belief that they should make best use of their
five year term, our Government believes that we
need       to        look    forward        to         at      least
15 years of sustained growth through consistent
policies     and      providing     clean        and        efficient
governance.


   183.      In the Revised Budget Estimates (RBE)
2026–27, SOTR is estimated at Rs.2,26,740 crore,
compared to the Interim Budget Estimates (IBE)
2026–27 projection of Rs.2,29,579 crore. This
allocation      includes       Rs.1,56,176         crore         for
Commercial Taxes, Rs.35,109 crore for Stamps
and    Registration,        Rs.14,861    crore         for    Motor
Vehicle Taxes, and Rs.14,164 crore for State
Excise. Aligning with the observations in the White
Paper on Fiscal Management regarding past over-
estimations, projections have been recalibrated
downward        in    the   Revised     Budget         Estimates.
State’s Own Tax Revenue is projected to expand
at a growth rate of 9.78 per cent in 2026–27 over
the Revised Estimates (RE) of 2025–26.
                              90



   184.     The State’s Own Non-Tax Revenue is
estimated at Rs.27,704 crore in Interim Budget
Estimates, as compared to Rs.26,265 crore in the
Revised Estimates 2025-26. In the Revised Budget
Estimates 2026-27, the State’s Own Non-Tax
Revenue is estimated at Rs.27,835 crore. In sum,
the   State’s   Own     Revenues       are     estimated   at
Rs.2,54,575 crore, which constitutes 72.73 per cent
of the Total Revenue Receipts in the Revised
Budget Estimates 2026-27.


   185.     The Grants-in-aid receivable from the
Union     Government            were       estimated       at
Rs.24,762    crore     in    Interim    Budget     Estimates
2026-27. The Union Government has introduced a
new scheme, ‘Viksit Bharat-Guarantee for Rozgar
and Ajeevika Mission (Gramin) in place of the
Mahatma     Gandhi      National       Rural    Employment
Guarantee Scheme. An amount of Rs.7,586 crore
has been provided under this scheme with a 60:40
sharing     pattern.        Furthermore,       a   sum     of
Rs.3,461 crore that is due to be released to Tamil
Nadu under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural
Employment Guarantee Scheme has also been
included in the Revised Budget Estimates for the
                             91



year 2026-27. Now in Revised Budget Estimate
Grants-in-aid      from    Centre        is    estimated     at
Rs.32,922 crore.


   186.    The     share     in     central       taxes     was
estimated at Rs.56,819 crore in the Revised
Estimates 2025-26. The same was estimated at
Rs.62,531 crore in the Interim Budget Estimates
2026-27,    based    on     the    Union        Government’s
allocation in their Budget. The same is retained in
Revised Budget Estimate 2026-27.


   187.    In    aggregate,        the        Total   Revenue
Receipts projected to be Rs.3,09,698 crore in the
Revised    Estimates      2025-26     and       projected    at
Rs.3,44,575 crore in the Interim Budget Estimates
2026-27,     has     now          been        estimated      at
Rs.3,50,027 crore in the Revised Budget Estimates
2026-27. This is Rs.5,452 crore increase over the
Interim Budget Estimates.


   188.    On      the     expenditure          front,    Total
Revenue     Expenditure       is    revised       upward     to
Rs.4,05,802 crore in Revised Budget Estimates
2026–27 from Rs.3,93,272 crore in Interim Budget
                                 92



Estimates 2026–27. This increase is attributable to
mandatory outlays for new flagship commitments,
agricultural crop loan waivers, 200 units of free
electricity, and the Thaimaaman Thanga Mothiram
scheme.


   189.     The overall Capital Expenditure in the
Interim Budget Estimates 2026-27 projected at
Rs.59,562 crore, is estimated at Rs.56,985 crore
in the Revised Budget Estimates 2026-27. The
total   capital       outlay     of        the        State    including
Net     Loans        and   Advances              is     estimated       at
Rs.66,060 crore in the Revised Budget Estimates
2026-27.


   190.     The Revenue Deficit in the Interim
Budget Estimates 2026-27 was Rs.48,696 crore.
It is pertinent to note that this is an underestimate
particularly     by    means      of        over        estimation      of
Revenue Receipts and lesser estimate of Revenue
Expenditure.         Hence,    the          Revenue           Deficit   is
estimated       to    increase        to    Rs.55,775          crore    in
Revised Budget Estimates 2026-27.
                           93



   191.     The Fiscal Deficit in Revised Budget
Estimates 2026-27 is estimated at Rs.1,21,819
crore as against Rs.1,21,949 crore in Interim
Budget Estimates 2026-27. The Fiscal Deficit is
within the targets fixed under Tamil Nadu Fiscal
Responsibility Act 2003.


   192.     The Overall Outstanding liability of the
State is estimated to be Rs.10,98,768 crore in the
Revised Budget Estimates 2026-27 as against
Rs.10,99,458     crore    in    the   Interim   Budget
Estimates    2026-27.     The    outstanding    liability
includes Public    Debt    and the     Public Account
Liability of the State. It may be noted that the
Public Debt includes an amount of Rs.9,523 crore
which should reflect in the accounts of the Union
Government after the approval of Chennai Metro
Rail Phase – II project as a Central Sector Project.
As and when the necessary book adjustments are
made by the Government of India, the public Debt
will reduce to that extent.


   193.     The Outstanding Debt., that is, the
overall liability to GSDP ratio in Revised Budget
Estimates 2026-27 is estimated at 27.01 per cent
                               94



as compared to 27.03 per cent in the Interim
Budget Estimates 2026-27.


Hon’ble Speaker Sir,

     194.    This Government will take firm steps
towards achieving growth in revenue by sealing
the leakages in tax collection, increasing the
collection efficiency and through taking revenue
augmentation measures. The Government will
strive to receive the optimum level of Grants in
aid receivable from the Union Government eligible
to   the    State.    Through        these    measures,      the
Revenue      and     Fiscal    Deficit     are    expected     to
decrease in the forthcoming years.                      This will
consequently         lead     to     boosting      of     Capital
Expenditure and achieving the desirable growth.


     195.    Tamil Nadu possesses the economic
strength, the institutional depth, and the human
resources     to     restore       its   fiscal   health.   This
Government is working on accurate understanding
of the fiscal issues and is resolved to address it
through disciplined revenue mobilisation, prudent
expenditure management, and clean, corruption-
free governance.
                          95
                          95    95 95



   196.
   196.196.
          I196.
           I wish
             wish
               I wish
                  I to
                    towish
                        convey
                        convey
                         to to
                            convey
                               convey
                                my
                                my my
                                    gratitude
                                    gratitude
                                       my
                                        gratitude
                                            gratitude
                                               and
                                               and andand
appreciation
appreciation
       appreciation
               to
               to to
    appreciation   Thiru
                   Thiru
                      toThiru
                           Thiru
                           M.A.
                            M.A.M.A.
                                  Siddique,
                                  Siddique,
                                   M.A.Siddique,
                                          Siddique,
                                              IAS,
                                              IAS,IAS,IAS,
Additional
Additional
        Additional
           Chief
           Chief
    Additional    Secretary,
                   Secretary,
                    Chief
                Chief     Secretary,
                              Finance
                              Finance
                       Secretary,     Finance
                                       Department,
                                       Department,
                                  Finance     Department,
                                           Department,
and
and and
    to
    to all
       all
       and
         toofficials
           officials
             to officials
            all  all officials
                      of
                      of the
                         the
                           of Finance
                               Finance
                                of the
                               the     Finance
                                        Department
                                        Department
                                    Finance    Department
                                                   who
                                                   whowhowho
                                            Department
worked
worked worked
        tirelessly
         tirelessly
    worked        tirelessly
                      in
                       in preparing
              tirelessly   preparing
                           in in  preparing
                                      this
                                       this this
                               preparing      Revised
                                              Revised
                                                this  Revised
                                                   Revised
Budget.
Budget.Budget.
   Budget.


   197.
   197.197.
          II197.
              once
              once I again
                     again
                I onceonce  express
                            again
                            express
                         again     express
                                     my
                                     my my
                                express  heartfelt
                                          heartfelt
                                            my   heartfelt
                                             heartfelt
thanks
thanks thanks
        to
        to the
    thanks the
            to toHon’ble
                 Hon’ble
                the the  Hon’ble
                          Chief
                           Chief
                      Hon’ble    Minister
                                 Minister
                                  Chief
                               Chief     Minister
                                           for
                                           for for
                                     Minister   his
                                                hisfor
                                                    his his
invaluable
 invaluable
        invaluable
            guidance
            guidance
     invaluable    guidance
                     and
                     and and
                guidance counsel
                          counsel
                            and  counsel
                                  in
                                   in shaping
                             counsel  shaping
                                          in shaping
                                              this
                                              this thisthis
                                       in shaping
Revised
RevisedRevised
        Budget.
        Budget.
    Revised    Budget.
            Budget.


   198.
   198.198.
          Hon’ble
          Hon’ble
          198.Hon’ble
                  Hon’ble
                   Speaker
                   SpeakerSpeaker
                           Sir,
                           Sir, Sir,
                       Speaker  II request
                                   request
                                    Sir, I request
                                            you
                                            you you
                                     I request  to
                                                 to you
                                                     to to
obtain
obtain the
       the
       obtain
    obtain approval
           approval
           the the approval
                     of
                     of this
                approval this of
                              august
                              august
                          of thisthis august
                                      House
                                      House
                                  august     to
                                             to
                                              House
                                          House the
                                                the to the
                                                 to the
Revised
RevisedRevised
        Budget
        Budget
    Revised    Budget
               for
               for the
            Budget the
                    for year
                        for
                        year
                        the the
                              2026–27.
                              2026–27.
                                year
                             year    2026–27.
                                  2026–27.


                     வொழ்ே
                     வொழ்ேவொழ்ே
                            மிழ்!
                            மிழ்!
                             வொழ்ேமிழ்! மிழ்!

                  பவல்ே
                  பவல்ே மிழ்நொடு!
                        பவல்ே
                         மிழ்நொடு!
                      பவல்ே        மிழ்நொடு!
                              மிழ்நொடு!



                      Dr.
                      Dr. Thiru.
                          Thiru.
                          Dr. Dr. N.Marie
                                  N.Marie
                                  Thiru.
                               Thiru.     N.Marie
                                             Wilson
                                             Wilson
                                       N.Marie      Wilson
                                                 Wilson
                          Minister
                          MinisterMinister
                                   for
                                   for Finance,
                              Minister Finance,
                                        for for Finance,
                                            Finance,
                      Planning
                       Planning
                              Planning
                                and
                                and and
                           Planning  Development
                                     Development
                                         and  Development
                                          Development
                               96



                        APPENDIX


             MEDIUM TERM FISCAL PLAN


         The State Government is required to place a
 Medium      Term    Fiscal    Plan   (MTFP)   before   the
 Legislative Assembly along with the Budget in
 accordance with Section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu
 Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003 (TNFRA). As per
 Section 3(2) of the said Act, the MTFP shall set
 forth a multi-year rolling target for the prescribed
 fiscal indicators like Revenue Deficit, Fiscal Deficit
 and Debt to GSDP ratio, specifying the underlying
 assumptions made to arrive at those projections.
 Complying with the said provisions under the
 Tamil     Nadu     Fiscal    Responsibility   Act,   2003,
 a Medium-Term Fiscal Plan for the period from
 2026-27 to 2028-29 is hereby placed before the
 Legislative Assembly.


I.Revenue Receipts

         The Total Revenue Receipts of the State
 Government, including the Grants in Aid and
 Transfers from Union Government are estimated
 to be Rs.3,50,027 crore in the Revised Budget
                              97



Estimates 2026-27 as against the Interim Budget
Estimates of Rs.3,44,575 crore in 2026-27. The
projections   for    2027-28        is     estimated    to   be
Rs.3,95,386 crore and for 2028-29 is Rs.4,46,803
crore, which indicates a growth of 12.95 per cent
and 13.00 per cent respectively. The important
components are discussed below:


1.   State’s Own Tax Revenue

     The State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) was
estimated to be Rs.2,29,579 crore in the Interim
Budget Estimates 2026-27. It is estimated to decrease
to Rs.2,26,740 crore in the Revised Budget Estimates
2026-27. This erosion is not due to any structural
weakness      in     the      economy         but      due    to
administrative      decline    and        systemic   leakages
across Commercial Taxes, State Excise, Stamps
and Registration and Mining. Accordingly, the RBE
has seen a decrease of Rs.2839 crore over IBE.
Anticipating plugging of leakages in liquor retail
vending,      mining,          registration,           revenue
augmentation       and     better        administration,     the
projection of SOTR is Rs.2,58,483 crore in 2027-28
and Rs.2,94,671 crore in 2028-29. The growth
                               98



rates of State’s Own Tax Revenue are estimated to
be 14 per cent in 2027-28 and 2028-29.


2.   Non-Tax Revenue

     The     State’s     Own        Non-Tax      Revenue    is
estimated at     Rs.27,835          crore in the     Revised
Budget Estimates for 2026-27 which is a marginal
increase over the Interim Budget Estimates of
Rs.27,704 crore. The State’s Non-Tax Revenue is
projected at Rs.30,062 crore in 2027-28 and
Rs.32,467 crore in 2028-29, reflecting a growth of
8 per cent annually.


3.   Share in Central Taxes

     Tamil    Nadu’s     share       in   Central   Taxes   is
estimated at Rs.62,531 crore in Revised Budget
Estimates 2026-27 as estimated in the Interim
Budget Estimates. This is based on the estimates
in the Union Budget 2026-27. The share in Central
Taxes is     projected    to    be    Rs.71,285     crore in
2027-28    and   Rs.81,265          crore   in   2028-29    by
assuming a growth rate of 14 percent annually.
                              99



  4.     Grants-in-Aid         from            the      Union
         Government

         The   Grants-in-aid            from      the      Union
  Government is estimated at Rs.32,922 crore in
  Revised Budget Estimates 2026-27. This has been
  increased from the estimates in the Interim
  Budget Estimates 2026-27 of Rs.24,762 crore
  anticipating release from the Union Government
  for the newly introduced Viksit Bharat-Guarantee
  for Rozgar and Ajeevika Mission (Gramin) Scheme
  and the arrear grants-in-aid due to be released to
  Tamil Nadu under the erstwhile Mahatma Gandhi
  National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.
  For     2027-28,     Rs.35,555          crore      and     for
  2028-29,     Grants-in-aid            are    projected      at
  Rs.38,400 crore, by assuming a growth rate of
  8 per cent annually.


II. Revenue Expenditure

         The Revenue expenditure is estimated at
  Rs.4,05,802 crore in Revised Budget Estimates
  2026-27, which shows an increase of 3.19 per cent
  over   Interim     Budget   Estimates        2026-27.      The
  Revenue      expenditure         is    projected      to    be
                          100



Rs.4,49,319 crore in 2027-28 and Rs.4,97,860
crore in 2028-29.


     The important components are discussed
below:

     • The expenditure on account of Salaries is
         a committed expenditure. In the Revised
         Budget Estimates 2026-27, Salaries has
         been fixed at Rs.91,032 crore as compared
         to Rs.94,378 crore in the Interim Budget
         Estimates 2026-2027. On the basis of
         anticipated     new    recruitments,        the
         projected     expenditure   on   Salaries    is
         Rs.1,01,046 crore in the year 2027-28 and
         Rs.1,12,161 crore in 2028-29.


     • The expenditure on account of committed
         expenditure on Pensions and Retirement
         benefits is estimated to be Rs.41,846 crore
         in the Revised Budget Estimates 2026-27.
         Considering the trends in retirement, the
         expenditure under Pension and Retirement
         benefits is projected at Rs.46,030 crore in
         2027-28 and Rs.50,633 crore in 2028-29.
                        101



• The         Non-wage           Operations                and
  Maintenance is estimated to be Rs.19,698
  crore in the Revised Budget Estimates
  2026-27. This expenditure is projected at
  Rs.21,274 crore in 2027-28 and Rs.22,976
  crore in 2028-29, reflecting a growth of
  8 per cent.


• The expenditure on account of Subsidies
  and      Transfers       is    estimated            to    be
  Rs.1,74,494 crore in the Revised Budget
  Estimates 2026-27. The expenditure under
  Subsidies and Transfers is projected at
  Rs.1,91,219         crore      in     2027-28            and
  Rs.2,09,780 crore in 2028-29.


• The interest payments for public debt
  raised    in    the      previous      years        are    a
  committed liability of the Government and
  continue       to   increase        every        year.   The
  expenditure         on      account         of     interest
  payments is estimated at Rs.78,683 crore
  in    the       Revised       Budget             Estimates
  2026-27. This expenditure is projected at
                               102



            Rs.89,698        crore      in         2027-28      and
            Rs.1,02,256 crore in 2028-29.


III.Capital Account

        In the Revised Budget Estimates 2026-27, an
   amount of Rs.56,985 crore is allocated for Capital
   Expenditure. As the new Government is expected
   to spend more for capital expenditure, the capital
   expenditure is projected to be Rs.68,382 crore in
   2027-28 and Rs.83,426 crore in 2028-29. This
   shows the commitment of the State to constantly
   improve     the     allocation      for        growth-oriented
   expenditure while maintaining fiscal discipline.
   The net loans and advances are estimated at
   Rs.9,075 crore in the Revised Budget Estimates
   2026-27.    This    is   projected         to     increase    to
   Rs.10,891 crore in 2027-28 and to Rs.13,287 crore
   in 2028-29.


IV.Revenue Deficit and Fiscal Deficit

        The Revenue Deficit in the Revised Budget
   Estimates for 2026-27 is estimated at Rs.55,775
   crore.     On     the    strength         of    the   revenue
   augmentation measures, including improved tax
                          103



  administration   and   collection   efficiency,   it   is
  expected to narrow to Rs.53,933 crore in 2027-28
  and further to Rs.51,058 crore in 2028-29, thereby
  creating additional space for capital expenditure
  in the State.


       In the Revised Budget Estimates for 2026-27,
  the Fiscal Deficit is estimated to be 3.00 per cent
  of GSDP. In the forthcoming years, Fiscal Deficit
  to GSDP ratio is projected to be 2.87 per cent in
  2027-28. In 2028-29, it is estimated to be further
  reduced to 2.80 per cent. The Fiscal Deficit of the
  Medium Term will be maintained within the targets
  fixed under Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act
  2003.


V. Public Debt and Liabilities

       The estimates for receipt and repayment of
  borrowings have been finalized on the basis of
  overall borrowing ceiling fixed by the Government
  of India. The Government plans to avail a total
  loan amount of Rs.1,73,445 crore during 2026-27
  and make repayment of Rs.51,971 crore. Liabilities
  under the Public Account are also reckoned along
  with the Public Debt. Net increase in Public Debt
                                104



  and Liability is estimated at Rs.1,20,964 crore in
  Revised Budget Estimates as compared to the net
  increase of Rs.1,21,653 crore estimated in Interim
  Budget 2026-27.          As a result, the outstanding
  liabilities    as   on    31 st     March   2027   will    be
  Rs.10,98,768 crore, amounting to 27.01 per cent
  of GSDP in 2026-27. However, the Public Debt
  includes an amount of Rs.9,523 crore which should
  reflect in the accounts of the Union Government
  after    the    approval      of     Chennai   Metro      Rail
  Phase – II project as a Central Sector Project. As
  and when the necessary book adjustments are
  made by the Government of India, the Public Debt
  will reduce to that extent. The ratio of Liability to
  GSDP is expected to ease further to 26.57 per cent
  in 2027-28 and 26.10 per cent in 2028-29. The
  State thus aims to preserve debt sustainability as
  part of its fiscal consolidation roadmap.


VI.Guarantees

          The outstanding guarantees for each year
  have to be restricted at a level of 100 per cent of
  the Total Revenue Receipts in the preceding year
  or 10 per cent of the GSDP, whichever is lower. The
  outstanding guarantees as on 31 st March, 2026
                              105



were 63.57 per cent of Total Revenue Receipts in
the preceding year and 5.04 per cent of GSDP.


     The outstanding risk weighted guarantees for
each year have to be kept at a level of 75 per cent
of the Total Revenue Receipts of the preceding
year or 7.5 per cent of GSDP, whichever is lower.
The outstanding risk weighted guarantees as on
31 st March, 2026 stood at 23.46 per cent of Total
Revenue Receipts of the preceding year and
1.86 per cent of GSDP.


Conclusion

     While the State Treasury faces inherited debt
pressures and administrative shortcomings, this
Medium-Term       Fiscal      Plan     charts    a    decisive,
forward-looking roadmap to restore fiscal balance
and institutional strength over the next three
years.     Guided      by     the    high-level       Revenue
Augmentation           and      Expenditure           Reforms
Committees, the State is executing a structured
framework to systematically eliminate revenue
leakages,    optimize        expenditure,       and   enhance
service    delivery.    Crucially,      this    medium-term
strategy    not     only      aligns     immediate       fiscal
                             106



consolidation,    but      also    envisages     growth    to
overcome the deficit in the next 2 years with the
help of clean, transparent, and better governance.


     With sustainable revenue capacities, and
rationalization of expenditure, the public liabilities
will be realigned. Driven by deep institutional
strength,   a    vibrant    industrial   landscape,       and
exceptional     human       resources,    this    strategic
roadmap bridges structural repair with enduring
economic health—positioning Tamil Nadu as a
benchmark for prudent, inclusive, and sustained
economic growth.


                           *********
                                                              Table - Medium Term Fiscal Plan
                                                                                                                                 (Rupees in Crores)
                                                                                                                    2026-2027
                                                                                           2025-2026
                                                2024-2025       2024-2025     2025-2026                2026-2027     Revised       2027-2028          2028-2029
                  August- 2026                                                              Revised
                                                Projection       Accounts     Projection               Projection     Budget       Projection         Projection
                                                                                           Estimates
                                                                                                                     Estimates
  Revenue Receipts                                 3,11,239       2,82,829     3,41,852     3,09,698    3,44,575     3,50,027        3,95,386          4,46,803
     State's Own Revenues                          2,37,659       2,13,828     2,58,665     2,32,806    2,57,283     2,54,575        2,88,546          3,27,138
       Tax                                         2,13,795       1,80,225     2,26,401     2,06,540    2,29,579     2,26,740        2,58,483          2,94,671
       Non-Tax                                       23,864         33,603       32,264       26,265      27,704       27,835          30,062            32,467
     Central Transfer                                73,580         69,001       83,187       76,892      87,292       95,452        1,06,840          1,19,665
       Shared Taxes                                  48,331         52,492       57,965       56,819      62,531       62,531          71,285            81,265
       Grants                                        25,249         16,509       25,223       20,073      24,762       32,922          35,555            38,400
     Capital Receipts                                                   43                        15          17           17
     Public Debt Receipts                          1,35,365       1,45,203     1,49,452     1,67,959    1,70,044     1,73,445        1,87,173          2,07,676

  Non-Interest Expenditures                        3,45,394       3,22,142     3,79,294     3,64,579    3,87,864     3,93,181        4,38,894          4,92,317
     Salaries (including GiA for education)          84,964         78,387       91,726       85,008      94,378       91,032        1,01,046          1,12,161
     Pensions & Retirement Benefits                  39,931         36,191       41,430       39,990      45,323       41,846          46,030            50,633
     Non- Wage O & M                                 17,574         15,989       15,614       18,895      18,735       19,698          21,274            22,976
     Subsidies and Transfers                       1,25,426       1,36,347     1,40,254     1,65,839    1,56,108     1,74,494        1,91,219          2,09,780
     Other Revenue Expenditures                          50             30           50           44          50           50              52                55
     Capital Outlay                                  64,683         47,108       66,754       51,443      59,562       56,985          68,382            83,426

     Net Lending                                    12,765           8,089       23,466       3,360       13,708        9,075          10,891            13,287
  Public Debt Disbursement                          41,134          40,684       41,134      47,323       52,079       51,971          53,967            59,906
Fiscal Indicators
  Primary Surplus (+)/ Deficit (-)                  -34,155        -39,269      -37,442      -54,867     -43,272      -43,136         -43,508           -45,515
  Interest Payments                                  61,877         61,725       70,877       69,140      78,677       78,683          89,698          1,02,256
  Interest Payments / Total Revenue Receipts        19.88%         21.82%       20.73%       22.33%      22.83%       22.48%          22.69%            22.89%
  Revenue Surplus(+) / Deficit(-)                   -18,583        -45,840      -18,098      -69,219     -48,697      -55,775         -53,933           -51,058
  Public Debt - Net                                  94,231       1,04,518     1,08,318     1,20,637    1,17,965     1,21,474        1,33,206          1,47,770
  Revenue Surplus(+) / Deficit(-) over TRR %        -5.97%         -16.21%      -5.29%      -22.35%     -14.13%      -15.93%          -13.64%          -11.43%
  Revenue Surplus(+) / Deficit(-) over Fiscal
                                                    19.35%          45.23%      16.71%       55.82%      39.93%       45.79%           40.49%           34.55%
  Surplus(+) / Deficit(-)%
  Transfer to Contingency Fund                                         350
  Fiscal Surplus (+) / Deficit(-)                   -96,031       -1,01,344   -1,08,318    -1,24,007   -1,21,950    -1,21,819        -1,33,206        -1,47,770
  Fiscal Surplus (+) / Deficit(-) over GSDP%        -3.00%          -3.25%       -2.96%      -3.48%       -3.00%       -3.00%          -2.87%            -2.80%
  Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP)            32,00,928       31,15,998    36,56,757    35,67,818   40,67,312    40,67,312       46,36,736         52,85,879
GOVERNMENT CENTRAL PRESS, CHENNAI-600 001.
