             Contents

                           Page
Sl.
             Subject        No.
No

      Introduction          1-2


1.1 Organisational Setup    3


1.2 Major units of CMDA    3-54


1.3 New Initiatives        54-63
               Demand No.26
   Housing and Urban Development
            Department

 Chennai Metropolitan Development
             Authority

            Policy Note 2025-2026

Introduction

      The    Chennai   Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) is the premier urban planning
and   development      agency   for   the   Chennai
Metropolitan Area. Established with the goal of
fostering organized urban growth, CMDA is
responsible for coordinating and regulating the
development of the city and its surrounding
regions. It plays a pivotal role in urban planning
and infrastructure development, ensuring that
the growth of the Chennai metropolitan area
adheres to sustainable, orderly, and efficient
urbanization principles.



                           1
        Established as an ad-hoc body in 1972 and
transformed into a statutory Authority in 1975,
CMDA       is    tasked          with    the        formulation         and
implementation              of     master           plans,         building
regulations, development schemes, and works to
streamline            the    development                of         Chennai
Metropolitan Area (CMA). CMDA is also entrusted
with responsibilities such as decongesting urban
areas, preserving environmental resources, and
promoting economic growth in line with modern
urban standards.

                            Budget Estimate
                              2025-2026



                                        Rupees in Thousands (Gross)


 Sl.
        Departments          Revenue    Capital       Loan          Total
 No.

 1.    Chennai
       Metropolitan Voted
                          400,00,03       7,40,01    4,413,50,02   4,820,90,06
       Development
       Authority




                                    2
                                    2
1.1 Organisational Set-up

        The    Chennai   Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) is headed by the Hon’ble
Minister for     Hindu    Religious   and    Charitable
Endowments who is also the chairperson of
CMDA. Operational functioning is overseen by a
team of executive functionaries including the
Vice-Chairperson, Member Secretary, and Chief
Executive Officer. Besides this executive group,
CMDA also consists of members from various
Government Departments, academic institutions,
trade    and    commerce        sectors   and   elected
representatives.     This       diverse     composition
ensures that CMDA has a broader outlook and
varied perspective on planning initiatives.
1.2 Major units of CMDA
        The following key units carry out the
functions of CMDA:
   i. Administrative Unit
   ii. Master Plan Unit


                            3
                            3
   iii. Area Development Unit
   iv. Area Plans Unit
   v. Regularization Unit
   vi. Road and Rail Unit
1.2.1 Administrative Unit
      The Administrative Unit handles all the
establishment matters related to the officers and
employees of CMDA.
1.2.2 Master Plan Unit
      The   Master   Plan       Unit   is   tasked   with
overseeing a range of critical functions that
guide urban development and planning within
the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA). These
responsibilities include:
   1. Preparation of Master Plan.
   2. Preparation    of     New        Town/    Detailed
      Development Plan.
   3. Review and amendments to Development
      Regulations.




                            4
                            4
  4. Policy matters and studies relating to
     Urban     Development     and   Metropolitan
     Planning as tasked by the Government.
  5. Conservation of Heritage Buildings/Areas.
  6. Implementation and revision of Master
     Plan.
  7. Stakeholder engagement for the different
     sub-sectors of Master Plan.
  8. Preparation   of   Land-use     plan     using
     Geographical Information System (GIS).
  9. Incorporation of variations in the Master
     Plan and Detailed Development Plans.
  10. Preparation of any other spatial plans as
     may be directed by the Government.
1.2.2.1 Preparation of Third Master Plan for
        Chennai Metropolitan Area 2027-
        2046
     The First Master Plan for the Madras
Metropolitan    Area    (now       the      Chennai
Metropolitan Area, CMA) was formulated in 1976
with the goal of decongesting the city, boosting


                        5
                        5
the regional economy, and providing adequate
housing   and   infrastructure     for   the   growing
population. This effective implementation of the
first Master plan was foundational in the creation
of the Second Master Plan (SMP) 2008-2026,
which aimed to create a more compact city while
addressing key environmental and sustainable
development      challenges,       including      flood
mitigation, pollution control, increasing green
cover and conservation of water bodies. The
SMP also includes provisions for ecologically
sensitive areas and establishes regulations for
catchment and aquifer recharge zones, thereby
limiting development and discouraging high-
density   construction    within     these     regions.
Furthermore,    the   SMP      implements      various
regulatory measures and instruments, including
the Premium Floor Space Index (FSI) and
Transferable    Development      Rights      (TDR)   to
effectively attain its stated objectives.



                         6
                          6
      In 2021, the Government authorized the
Chennai    Metropolitan   Development          Authority
(CMDA) to review the Second Master Plan in
accordance     with     the    rules     and       initiate
preparations for the Third Master Plan for the
Chennai Metropolitan Area. CMDA has started
the preparation of the Third Master Plan (2027-
2046) under the World Bank-assisted Tamil
Nadu Housing and Urban Habitat Development
Project (TNHHDP), and it is taking shape.
      As an initial step, CMDA has drafted a
"Vision Document for the Third Master Plan
2027-2046." Extensive public consultations took
place across all the 15 zones of the Greater
Chennai    Corporation    (GCC)        and    14    other
locations outside GCC between December 2022
and   January     2023.       Additionally,      sectoral
meetings     covering   Urban     Growth,      Housing,
Economic Development, Infrastructure, Social
Infrastructure,    Environment,          Traffic      and
Transportation,       Heritage,        Tourism        and

                          7
                          7
Technology were held with stakeholders from
various departments in October and November
2023.
        CMDA has also commissioned 18 sectoral
studies addressing critical issues such as land
value distribution, economic growth, housing
demand,         infrastructure   planning,    and
environmental management, all of which are in
advanced stages of progress. Some significant
studies include:
   a) Review       and     Recommendations     for
        Strengthening of TNCDBR-2019,
   b) Land value and density distribution in the
        CMA,
   c) Comprehensive       Shoreline   Development
        Plan,
   d) Study on Urban heat islands effect in
        Chennai,
   e) Integrating Blue-green infrastructure for
        flood disaster and risk reduction in Urban



                           8
                           8
     Planning    and   management             in    Chennai
     Metropolitan Area,
  f) Study on Demand and Supply pattern of
     Housing in Chennai Metropolitan Area for
     Chennai Third Master Plan 2027-2046,
  g) Spatial distribution of employment and
     income      categories       and   agglomeration
     economies in Chennai Metropolitan Area,
  h) Development       of       sustainable        Economic
     Growth Strategic Plan for the Chennai
     Metropolitan Area, and
  i) Strategic      Institutional        strengthening
     assessment and Action plan for CMDA
  Apart from this, the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA) has initiated
several key studies, including the Open Space
Guidelines, Urban Design Guidelines, the Social
Facilities Plan for the Chennai Metropolitan Area
(CMA), Neighbourhood Planning within the CMA
and the formulation of the Gender-Inclusive



                            9
                            9
Third Master Plan for the Chennai Metropolitan
Area (2027-2046).
      To   integrate    the    outcomes    of    these
sectoral   studies and develop comprehensive
strategies for the sustainable development of
the   Chennai   Metropolitan     Area,    CMDA    has
undertaken a project on "Undertaking Multi-
sectoral Analysis and Strategy Development to
Support    CMDA's      Multi-sector   Approach     for
Promoting Resilient, Green and Inclusive Land
Use Planning for the Chennai Metropolitan Area."
The draft analysis is in the final stages of
preparation and, various intensive stakeholder
consultations are planned across the CMA.
      CMDA is also in the process of preparing a
base map using Geographic Information System
(GIS) technology. This map includes survey
parcels as the foundational layers, supplemented
by    high-resolution     satellite   imagery     and
Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS)
surveys. It encompasses key features such as

                          10
                          10
road networks, railway lines, water bodies, hills,
forests, and major landmarks. This base map
will serve as the foundation for the development
of additional thematic maps that will inform the
Third Master Plan.
      CMDA is also undertaking studies such as
the "Impact of Urban Development on Coastal
Aquifer and Measures for Protection in the
Villages from Kottivakkam to Mahabalipuram,
between the Bay of Bengal and Buckingham
Canal" and the "Impact of Urbanization on
Redhills Catchment Area, with Measures for its
Conservation and Protection from Urbanization”.
1.2.2.2 Grid of Roads Plan
      To address the growing transportation
demands of      the   rapidly   expanding Chennai
Metropolitan    Area      (CMA),    the        Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has
developed   a   comprehensive      Grid   of    Roads
network plan, covering 201 villages. This plan
outlines a hierarchical road system aimed at

                         11
                         11
enhancing connectivity and accessibility within
currently undeveloped regions.
      The    Tamil     Nadu         Town    and   Country
Planning Act, 1971, grants the authority to
prepare Detailed Development Plans (DDPs) at
the micro level, focusing on improvements to
existing roads and streets, the creation of new
roads, and the provision of essential social
infrastructure. Acknowledging the critical need
to establish a well-structured circulation system
prior to the onset of development, CMDA’s Grid
of   Roads    plan    is   designed        to   seamlessly
integrate    with    future        DDPs.   This   forward-
thinking approach ensures that emerging large-
scale developments on the periphery of Chennai
City will be adequately supported by an efficient
and hierarchical road network. Specifically, the
plan proposes the widening of 399 existing roads
and the creation of 439 new roads.
      To encourage public participation, CMDA
published a notice in local newspapers inviting

                           12
                              12
objections and suggestions from the general
public regarding the proposed road widening as
a first phase.
        All objections and suggestions received
were     carefully   reviewed        and   addressed
individually. Based on these inputs, and in
consultation with the Highways Department, a
revised draft road widening proposal has been
made ready. This updated proposal seeks to
incorporate the 399 road widening projects into
the Grid of Roads Plan as a variation to the
Second Master Plan, under Section 32(4) of the
Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act,
1971.
        In the second phase, the 439 new roads
proposed in the Grid of Roads Plan will undergo
a detailed scrutiny. Following this, the CMDA will
invite further objections and suggestions from
the public regarding these new roads and then
initiate the notification process.



                         13
                         13
1.2.2.3     Preparation  of   New                    Town
            Development Plans
       The Hon’ble     Minister for Housing and
Urban Development Department, while moving
the Demand No.26 in the Legislative Assembly
for the Financial Year 2022-2023, had made the
following announcement:
       "In order to develop urban growth centers
such   as   Thirumazhisai,     Minjur,        Thiruvallur,
Chengalpattu,    and    Kancheepuram           and    their
respective surrounding areas as satellite towns,
separate New Town Development Plans for each
will be prepared by the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA)."
       This initiative aims to foster balanced
urbanization    and    decongestion      of    the    core
metropolitan area by establishing well-planned
satellite towns in these regions. CMDA will
undertake the preparation of comprehensive
development plans for each of these identified
areas, focusing on infrastructure development,

                          14
                          14
residential      and       commercial       zoning     and
sustainable urban growth.
       The New Town Development Plans will
outline strategic measures to enhance urban
liveability,     connectivity,       and      accessibility,
thereby        promoting     economic       growth     and
improving the quality of life for residents in
these towns.
1.2.2.3.1       Thirumazhisai New Town
       Thirumazhisai New Town is located at the
interchange of the Outer Ring Road (ORR) and
the    Chennai-Bangalore             Highway      (NH-48),
making it a strategic location for both residential
and     economic           growth.      The       proposed
Thirumazhisai      New      Town Development          Area
spans 34.21 sq. km, including villages from
Thirumazhisai      Town      Panchayat,       Poonamallee
Panchayat Union, and Poonamallee Municipality.
       The “Preparation of Thirumazhisai New
Town    Development         Plan     2025     –   2045”   is
underway. As per the conceptual plan prepared

                             15
                             15
for Thirumazhisai New Town, a Loop Road is
proposed at the periphery of the delineated
Thirumazhisai New Town Area connecting the
Chennai Outer Ring Road and NH 48. The Loop
Road is to be implemented through the Land
Pooling Area Development schemes (LPADS)
within the proposed Thirumazhisai New Town
Development Area.
        The Government had accorded approval
for notification of declaration of the intention to
notify the seven Land Pooling Area Development
Schemes for the implementation of Loop road
proposal. Based on this, CMDA has notified the
declaration of the intention to notify the seven
Land Pooling Area Development Schemes for a
total   extent    of   1605.75    acres   for    which,
preparation      of    draft    Land   Pooling    Area
Development Schemes is under process.
1.2.2.3.2     Mamallapuram Satellite Town
        Mamallapuram, situated on the eastern
coast of the Chennai Metropolitan Area, has

                           16
                           16
significantly contributed to the region's history
and economy, primarily driven by its thriving
tourism industry. In order to have sustainable
and planned growth in this region, a satellite
town was proposed in 2023 to be created near
Mamallapuram along East Coast Road, through
the land pooling model by CMDA following the
new    growth     cluster.    Subsequently,        the
Government had directed the CMDA to prepare
the   New    Town      Development         Plan    for
Mamallapuram New Town with a horizon period
from 2025- 2045.
      The       Mamallapuram         New          Town
Development Plan (NTDP) 2025-2045 aims at
promoting    sustainable     urban   growth        and
preserving the rich heritage & culture of the
region while serving as a satellite town for
Chennai. This plan will not only improve the
tourism infrastructure but also create a new
economic hub for the Chennai Metropolitan Area,
with a focus on tourism, and related sectors.

                        17
                        17
This New Town area spans 25 villages over
123.48 sq. km., around Mamallapuram village.
The Authority has approved the preparation of a
Mamallapuram New Town Development Plan to
transform    Mamallapuram         New      Town     into    a
Tourism     and     MICE   centre.      The      work      on
preparation of the plan is currently underway.
1.2.2.3.3    Kancheepuram New Town
      In    2023,    the   Government            delineated
Kancheepuram New Town, encompassing 18
villages over an area of 62.78 square kilometers.
      Pursuant to this, the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA) has initiated the
"Preparation of New Town Development Plan for
Kancheepuram         New        Town       and     Detailed
Development and Heritage Revitalization Plan for
Kancheepuram        Town   (2025       –    2045)."     The
primary objective of this initiative is to position
Kancheepuram Town as a world-class heritage
town, while transforming the surrounding areas
into a vibrant industrial town.

                           18
                           18
1.2.2.3.4   Chengalpattu New Town
      The Chengalpattu New Town has been
delineated to include 62 surrounding villages,
covering an area of 181.11 square kilometers.
      In this regard, the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA) has initiated the
preparation of the "New Town Development Plan
for   Chengalpattu     (2025-2045)."         The     plan
envisions   holistic   growth,      focusing   on    the
physical, social, economic, and environmental
development of the region, while leveraging the
existing potential for sustainable progress.
1.2.2.3.5   Minjur New Town
      Minjur, located on the northern fringe of
the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA) has had a
huge impact on the economy of the Chennai city
as it is largely driven by industrial and port-
related activities. In order to have a sustainable
and   planned    growth        in   this   region,   the
Government have directed CMDA to prepare the
New Town Development Plan for Minjur New

                          19
                         19
Town with a horizon period from 2025-2045.
The Minjur New Town has been delineated with
12   villages    around    Minjur    village,         covering
111.62 sq. km. Envisioned as an economic hub,
the Authority has approved the preparation of a
comprehensive New Town Development Plan to
transform Minjur New Town into an urban
industrial growth centre. The preparation of the
New Town Development Plan for Minjur is
currently underway.
1.2.2.3.6       Thiruvallur New Town
      The area designated for the development
of   the   proposed    New       Town      at       Thiruvallur
includes 11 contiguous villages with an extent of
37.74 sq.km. The Authority has decided to
approve     the     preparation       of        a     detailed
economic/business         plan      and     New          Town
Development Plan for Tiruvallur.
      In 2023, the Government announced its
intention to notify eleven villages which were
included within the delineated boundary as the

                           20
                           20
proposed New Town at Thiruvallur. As a part of
development of urban growth centres in the
CMA, Periyapalayam and its surrounding villages
in   Thiruvallur    district    were       identified    for
development as Thiruvallur New Town.
      The      preparation     of    the     New        Town
Development Plan for Tiruvallur to transform the
area into a Knowledge and Research Hub is
currently underway.
1.2.2.3.7      Maraimalai Nagar New Town
      Considering       the         economic       growth
potential, the development of Maraimalai Nagar
New Town was conceived to foster balanced and
organized development.
      Maraimalai Nagar, with its diverse mix of
residential,       commercial         and       industrial
opportunities, is ideally positioned for substantial
future growth. The proposed Maraimalai Nagar
New Town Development Area spans 138.9 sq.
km, including the Municipalities of Maraimalai



                          21
                          21
Nagar    and        Nandhivaram-Guduvancheri            along
with surrounding villages.
        The     Authority             has   approved        the
preparation of New Town Development Plan for
Maraimalai Nagar. The Government has declared
its intention to notify forty-two villages which
were included within the delineated boundary as
the proposed Maraimalai Nagar New Town. The
process of engaging a consultant to prepare the
New Town Development Plan for Maraimalai
Nagar is currently underway.
1.2.2.3.8      Sriperumbudur New Town
        The Government, recognising the need to
enhance       the    role   of    Sriperumbudur        as   an
industrial     hub     by    upgrading       infrastructure,
fostering economic growth and providing better
support to industries, announced its intention to
notify Sriperumbudur town and 49 surrounding
as the Sriperumbudur New Town area spanning
265.57 sq.km.



                                 22
                                 22
        This New Town has been delineated to
provide      improved      transportation        networks,
planned growth and infrastructure to attract
investments while simultaneously ensuring the
provision of affordable housing, urban amenities,
and employment opportunities. It is imperative
that    industrial     growth      is     balanced       with
environmental sustainability and the needs of
the community to foster continued industrial and
economic development, not only in Chennai but
across Tamil Nadu. In order to achieve this, the
process of engaging a consultant for preparation
of     New      Town       Development           Plan     for
Sriperumbudur New Town, is underway.
1.2.3 Area Development Unit
     The Area Development Unit (ADU) of CMDA is
a key division responsible for the planning,
coordination,        and    execution         of        urban
development      projects        within    the     Chennai
Metropolitan Area. The ADU focuses on the
systematic development of various urban zones,

                            23
                            23
ensuring that infrastructure, housing, and public
amenities are aligned with the city’s overall
growth vision. By working on both planned and
regulated developments, the ADU plays a crucial
role    in   shaping   sustainable,   well-organized
communities and improving the quality of life for
the residents of Chennai and its surrounding
areas.
i.     Planning Wing:
        The Planning Wing handles the formulation
of     projects,   acquisition   of    lands,   and
development of the projects proposed.
ii.    Construction Wing:
        The Construction Wing executes all the
projects devised by CMDA.
iii.    Estate Management Wing:
        The Estate Management Wing oversees
the asset management including acquired lands
and the marketing of assets generated within
the development projects.



                          24
                          24
iv.   Finance Wing:
   The Finance Wing is entrusted with securing
project   financing   and    determining    pricing
strategies.
      The Area Development Unit currently
handles the following projects:
1.2.3.1 Kalaignar Centenary Bus Terminus
      The Kalaignar Centenary Bus Terminus at
Kilambakkam,    constructed    by   the    Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) at
a cost of Rs. 393.74 crores sprawling over 88.52
acres, was inaugurated by the Hon’ble Chief
Minister of Tamil Nadu on 30.12.2023. Built to
reduce congestion in Chennai and overcrowding
at the Koyambedu Mofussil Bus Terminus, this
state-of-the-art facility caters to south-bound
Mofussil buses and offers world-class amenities.
The terminus accommodates 215 buses in bays,
320 in idle parking, with additional space for
3,146 two-wheelers and 482 four-wheelers. It
houses    105   commercial    outlets,    Transport

                       25
                       25
Corporation offices, ticket counters, dormitories
for 340 bus crew members and 140 passengers
and toilets for all genders and differently-abled
persons.        The          infrastructure         includes
uninterrupted power supply, a sewage treatment
plant, a six-acre fountain park and accessibility
enhancements. Declared a one-time-use plastic-
free zone, the facility also offers a 24x7 medical
centre, ambulance services, battery-operated
shuttle    vehicles,    lactation         rooms,     purified
drinking water, escalators and lifts. Around
1,100 State Transport Corporation buses and
550   private    omni    buses      operate        from   the
terminus on a daily basis, with 781 Metropolitan
Transport Corporation (MTC) buses ensuring city
connectivity. On an average, 50,000 passengers
use the terminus daily, rising to 75,000 on
weekends     and      over     1   lakh    during    festive
seasons. This modern transport hub exemplifies
Tamil Nadu's commitment to enhance public
transportation infrastructure while prioritizing

                              26
                              26
passenger         convenience,         safety     and
environmental sustainability.
      The Kalaignar Centenary Bus Terminus
(KCBT) has undergone a series of significant
improvements        by    Chennai        Metropolitan
Development Authority since its inauguration,
designed to improve the passenger experience
and promote sustainability. A sprawling 16-acre
climate park and archaeological interpretation
center, which has been developed at a cost of
Rs. 15.20 crores, provides much-needed green
space and recreational opportunities for the
public.   Commuters can now utilize the "KCBT
Mobile App," which offers real-time information
on platform details, destinations, timings, and
estimated travel times, as well as a convenient
platform for feedback and grievance submission.
To   streamline    operations    and    enhance   the
comfort of long-distance travellers, a dedicated
Omni bus parking facility, located near the Outer
Ring Road, provides space for 120 buses and

                         27
                         27
includes modern amenities like a dormitory for
drivers   and     conductors.          Efforts    are      also
underway to improve multi-modal integration,
with a new suburban railway station under
construction. A skywalk is being built to connect
this station to the KCBT.                Considering the
security of the passengers, a new G+3 storied
police station is being constructed within the
KCBT premises.          Inside the terminal, digital
display boards are being installed to provide
clear and accessible information to commuters.
Sustainability is a key focus, with a dedicated
on-site garbage processing and recycling facility
planned, aiming for zero waste disposal by
processing wet      waste into manure for the
terminal's gardens.           Finally, a new covered
pathway    with    ramps       has     been      created    to
minimize the walking distance between MTC
buses and the main terminal building. These
initiatives have met with positive feedback from
a   diverse     range    of        passengers,     including

                              28
                              28
international travellers, solidifying KCBT's role as
a modern and efficient transportation hub.
1.2.3.2   New Mofussil Bus          Terminus     at
          Kuthambakkam
      To ease the congestion at Koyambedu and
provide a well-equipped and modern facility that
serves as a central hub for intercity and inter-
district bus services for westbound buses, a bus
terminus at Kuthambakkam was proposed at an
estimated budget of 414 crores. Construction
work is under an advanced stage of progress at
the site of 24.79 acres and once operational, this
terminus will facilitate efficient and convenient
transportation     for    commuters       traveling
westward.
1.2.3.3 New Bus Stand at Chengalpattu
      The Chengalpattu bus stand will enhance
public transport coverage in the southern parts
of the CMA while alleviating traffic congestion
within the Chengalpattu city center. The work on
the bus terminus on 9.95 acres commenced in

                         29
                         29
October 2023 at an estimated budget of 97
crores and is progressing at a swift pace to be
soon opened for public.
1.2.3.4 New Bus Stand at Mamallapuram
       Mamallapuram is one of the 8 towns
identified for New Town development. To help
Mamallapuram     meet     the   growing   local   and
tourist demands for connectivity and stimulate
local economic development, a bus stand is
being constructed on 6.9 acres at an estimated
cost of Rs 90.50 crores. This terminus will be a
critical     addition      to      Mamallapuram’s
transportation infrastructure when operational.
1.2.3.5      Koyambedu   Wholesale          Market
              Complex (KWMC)
       The   Chennai    Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) established the Koyambedu
Wholesale Market Complex as one of Asia’s
largest market places for perishable goods,
extending over 86 acres in 1996 as part of the
First Master Plan. The administration of the


                          30
                          30
market is overseen by the Market Management
Committee established under the Tamil Nadu
Specified Commodities Markets (Regulation of
Location) Act, 1996.

     Apart from the existing public utilities, in
the last 4 years, in order to modernize the
market complex, works like establishment of
solar power plants, installation of a modern
control room with additional CCTV cameras,
installation of additional high mast lights and
renovation     of    damaged      clinic    have     been
completed and dedicated for public usage.

     Further, works like establishment of arches
at prominent entry gates, painting of common
areas, provision of cold storage facility in the
Food Grain Market, development of a park in the
Open Space Reservation (OSR) area adjacent to
the Flower Market, revamping of stormwater
drains   and        sewage    pumping      station   and




                             31
                             31
provision of two passenger lifts in the Flower
Market are underway.

      These    efforts    are   in        line   with   the
Government’s      commitment         to     enhance     the
infrastructure, sustainability and services at the
Koyambedu       Wholesale       Market           Complex,
ensuring a seamless and modern experience for
traders and customers alike.
1.2.3.6 Modernization of Iron and steel
         market at Sathangadu
      The   Chennai      Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) established the Iron & Steel
Market (I&SM) at Sathangadu in 1991, located
near the Ennore Expressway, covering an area
of 203 acres, as outlined in the Master Plan. The
market has been successfully operating for over
30   years with    comprehensive infrastructural
facilities designed to alleviate congestion in the
George Town area. A dedicated police station is
situated within the market to maintain law and
order.

                          32
                          32
        Out of the 850 plots in the market, 717
have already been allotted to various allottees,
with efforts underway to allocate the remaining
plots. Notable public sector units, including SAIL,
VSP, IOCL and HPCL, are also among the
allottees.
        As part of the ongoing modernization
initiative, the market has been equipped with
surveillance      cameras         for    comprehensive
monitoring, with footage being overseen from a
central control room. Essential services such as
drinking       water,      electricity     and    road
infrastructure are being continuously provided to
the allottees.
        Chennai         Metropolitan      Development
Authority continues to modernize the Iron and
Steel    Market   to     ensure    continuous growth,
safety and improved service to all stakeholders.




                            33
                            33
1.2.3.7     Madhavaram                Truck          and    Bus
            Terminal
      Chennai          Metropolitan             Development
Authority has established a Truck Terminal at
Madhavaram in an extent of 80 acres at a cost
of Rs.6 crores to promote trade and economy in
Chennai City. This          terminal is located at the
junction of Inner Ring Road and GNT Road with
good connectivity, easy access to the city, port
and   railway      stations,        making      it    a    major
contributor to the commercial and economic
development of the city.
      For    the     benefit     of    transport       workers,
freight    agents,    the      public,   and         commercial
establishments, the terminal has warehouse and
loading / unloading areas, vehicle repair yards,
parking,    office    building and           other facilities.
Space has also been earmarked for Vehicle
Repair,     Administrative            Building,        Electrical
Substation, Fire       Station,       Post     Office,     Police
Station, Fuel Bunk,            Storage Godown, Truck


                               34
                               34
Parking, Telephone Exchange, Weigh Bridge and
other facilities. A sum       of Rs.30.30    crores has
been      sanctioned   in     2023-24   by      Chennai
Metropolitan     Development         Authority      and
released to Greater Chennai Corporation for
taking up improvement works in this terminal.
        In order to     decongest the Koyambedu
Mofussil Bus Terminus, Chennai              Metropolitan
Development Authority has constructed                the
Madhavaram Mofussil Bus Terminus at a cost of
Rs.95 crore at Madhavaram Truck Terminal for
the buses plying from Chennai to North via GNT
Road.
1.2.3.8 Manjambakkam Truck Parking Yard
        Considering    the    requirement     of   heavy
vehicles coming from other places and other
states,     Chennai    Metropolitan     Development
Authority has taken           up the construction of
Heavy Vehicle Parking at Manjambakkam in an
extent of 14 acres along the Inner Ring Road in
2014. The parking yard can accommodate about

                             35
                             35
400 heavy vehicles and has been provided with
facilities such as drinking water facility, public
conveniences,        shops,        CCTV         surveillance,
uninterrupted power supply.
1.2.3.9 Vada Chennai Valarchi Thittam
      North Chennai, a vibrant and historically
significant region within the bustling metropolis
of Chennai, India, is a microcosm of the city's
multifaceted     identity.        From      its        humble
beginnings as a trading hub to its present-day
challenges     and    aspirations,        North     Chennai
carries a rich legacy that continues to shape its
character.
      Historically, North Chennai has played a
pivotal role in the city's evolution. Its proximity
to the Chennai Port, one of the India's busiest
has fostered a strong maritime tradition.
      However,       North        Chennai       also    faces
contemporary     challenges.        Rapid       urbanization
and   industrialization   have       led    to     increased
population     density    and       put     a     strain   on

                          36
                             36
infrastructure. Issues like inadequate housing,
limited     access   to     quality       healthcare      and
education,     and   environmental             concerns   are
prevalent.
         To ensure equitable and comprehensive
growth across Chennai, the rapid development
of North Chennai is a must. The Government
announced the “Vada Chennai Valarchi Thittam”
at an initial outlay of Rs. 1000 crores in
2023-2024,        over       the        next     3     years.
Subsequently, a Socio-Economic survey was
carried out to identify growth opportunities and
potential development projects across sectors
including      healthcare,         education,        physical
infrastructure,            utilities,           employment
opportunities, housing and slum redevelopment,
social    infrastructure     and    safety      &    security,
covering 11 different Government departments/
organisations.
         Under this initiative, Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority has taken up 41 own

                             37
                             37
projects at a cost of Rs.928.65 crores and is
funding 94 projects of other departments at a
total cost of Rs.1063.06 crores, contributing to
135 projects at a total cost of Rs.1,991.71
crores. The projects of CMDA are under various
stages of implementation and are being sped up
to bring most of the projects to public use by the
end of this year.
1.2.4 Area Plans Unit
      The     Area     Plans        Unit   of   the   Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) is
responsible      for      regulating            development
(buildings constructions and layouts) within the
CMA. This function, under the Section 49 of the
Tamil Nadu Town & Country Planning Act, 1971
entails     enforcing          land-use         plans     and
Development Regulations established by the
Government as part of the Master Plan or
Detailed Development Plans. CMDA fulfills this
role by issuing Planning Permissions for various
building    projects      and          layouts,       ensuring

                               38
                               38
compliance        with    the      current    Development
Regulations,       the      Tamil      Nadu       Combined
Development and Building Rules, 2019. The
CMDA's         planning            permission         process
encompasses a range of development types,
including Non-High-Rise Buildings (NHRB), High-
Rise Buildings (HRB), Industrial and Institutional
Buildings,          and            Layouts/Sub-divisions.
Additionally, CMDA handles applications for the
reclassification of land use for individual sites.
1.2.4.1 Online Planning Permission System
      The Planning Permission Application (PPA)
process      at       the         Chennai       Metropolitan
Development         Authority       (CMDA)       has    been
significantly improved with the introduction of an
efficient    online      application        system,    which
became operational in May 2022.
      CMDA launched the "Web Enabled Single
Window       System         for     Online      Submission,
Processing and Disposal of Planning Permission
Applications," offering a wide range of benefits,

                              39
                              39
such as increased convenience, time efficiency,
and improved transparency in the approval
process. This user-friendly portal allows for
electronic     submission        of    applications,      pre-
verification    of     drawings       to   reduce       errors,
integrated online payment processing, and real-
time tracking of application status. Notably, the
system    enables       complete       end-to-end       online
processing of planning permission applications,
thereby        improving     both          efficiency      and
transparency.
      The Online Planning Permission Portal is
also integrated with 19 No Objection Certificate
(NOC)        issuing     agencies,         including       key
departments such as Chennai Metro Rail Limited
(CMRL), Public Works Department (PWD), Water
Resources       Department        (WRD),      Tamil      Nadu
Housing Board (TNHB), Electronics Corporation
of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT), Forest Department,
Geology and Mines Department, Small Industry
Development Corporation (SIDCO), State and

                            40
                            40
National      Highways,         Southern     Railways,
Collectorates           (Chennai,          Thiruvallur,
Kancheepuram, and Chengalpattu), Directorate
of Fire & Rescue Services (DFRS), Airports
Authority of India (AAI), Archaeological Survey
of India (ASI), and the Indian Air Force (IAF).
This    integration     streamlines    the   approval
process, ensuring a seamless and coordinated
approach to planning permissions. Also, the
Government has fixed a certain number of days
for    each   NOC     issuing   department    as    the
maximum       number     of     days   admissible   for
processing and issuance of NOC. Thereafter the
NOCs will be deemed to have been given. The
prescribed timeline for issuing the NOC, is being
added to the existing online NOC process in the
Single Window Portal, and this is currently under
progress.
       The    Chennai    Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) has delegated powers to
urban and rural local bodies to issue planning

                           41
                           41
permissions for developments with a FSI area of
less than 10,000 square feet and a height up to
14 meters. This system has been developed
online, with CMDA’s portal integrated into the
portals of         the     Greater Chennai             Corporation
(GCC),        the        Commissionerate          of     Municipal
Administration,            the     Department           of        Rural
Development              and   Panchayat         Raj,    and       the
Directorate of Town Panchayats through a Single
Window Portal, which became operational in
November            2023.      This       integration        enables
applicants          to     apply        online    for        building
permissions directly through local bodies.
       Additionally, the portal features a module
that allows users to verify the authenticity of
ownership documents via the Department of
Survey and Settlements (DOSS) database, as
well     as    a         module     for       users     to     check
Encumbrance Certificates (EC) and Guideline
Values    (GLV)          against        the   database       of    the
Inspector General of Registration (IGR).

                                   42
                                   42
        The Single Window Planning Permission
Application (PPA) Portal has also been enhanced
with     modules      for        CMDA's          layout     &
reclassification approvals, as well as completion
certificates. The layout module is also live, and
applications for layout approvals are now being
accepted      exclusively        through     the        online
platform. On the reclassification module of the
Online PPA system, live file testing is being
done.
        CMDA plans to streamline the existing
workflow    to    continuously      reduce        the     time
required for issuing planning permissions, while
simultaneously      increasing       the     volume         of
planning permissions issued.
        Through the end-to-end Online Planning
Permission system, CMDA is issuing planning
permissions more efficiently, with a processing
time ranging from 60 to 90 days. For High-Rise
Buildings   (HRB),        the    number      of    planning
permissions      issued     annually       has    increased

                            43
                            43
significantly. In the past year, CMDA issued 135
HRB applications, a two-fold increase compared
to the 65 HRB applications typically received
each year. Notably, more than 100 planning
permissions have been issued for High-Rise
Buildings,     marking        an      unprecedented
achievement.
      In the year 2024 in Non-High Rise Building
Category, 862 applications were received out of
which 664 planning permissions were issued.
This demonstrates the increased efficiency and
capacity of the online system in managing and
processing applications for both HRB and NHRB
developments.
1.2.4.2 Review Team and Appeal Division
      To facilitate quick disposal of Planning
Permissions and empowerment of the Local
Bodies,   CMDA    delegated        powers   to   issue
Planning Permission for certain         category    of
buildings to Greater Chennai Corporation and
Local Bodies within Chennai Metropolitan Area

                         44
                         44
i.e., (i) Greater Chennai Corporation, (ii) Avadi
Municipal Corporation, (iii) Tambaram Municipal
Corporation, (iv) Municipalities [5 Nos.], (v)
Town Panchayats [3 Nos.] and (vi) Panchayat
Unions [10 Nos.].
   The Local Bodies are reviewed periodically by
the Review Team and Appeal Division on various
aspects with reference to Planning Permission to
check whether the planning parameters have
been properly examined while issuing Planning
Permission; to check whether the charges and
fees   collected   are   in   order;   whether   the
delegation of powers are exercised properly as
given by CMDA; whether the details of Planning
Permission issued and the charges collected are
properly entered in the Register maintained with
Local Bodies and whether enforcement action is
initiated on the cases where Planning Permission
is rejected.




                         45
                         45
1.2.4.3 e-Governance
      CMDA is in the process of transforming
into a paperless office. CMDA has implemented
e-Office to streamline file processing and make
the   system        paperless.   This     will   improve
efficiency, reduce the response time for various
requests     such     as   RTI   applications,      Ungal
Thoguthiyil Muthalvar (UTM), Grievances and
other official processes.
      By processing files digitally, CMDA can
enhance transparency, accountability, and speed
in decision-making.
      Moreover, a mobile Application for the
Kalaignar Centenary Bus Terminus (KCBT) at
Kilambakkam has been developed and is now
live for public use. This application is designed to
ensure      passengers’     comfort,      safety,    and
convenience, offering them real-time information
and easy access to services.
      The     development        of   a    website    for
Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex(KWMC)

                            46
                            46
is   underway.   This   website      will   benefit   the
vendors and traders and create transparency in
issuing traders’ licence. Also, it streamlines the
paperless functioning and ease of doing work.
        The   Chennai   Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) has received a highly positive
response to the Online Planning Permission
Portal and other IT initiatives. Moving forward,
all functions of CMDA will be transitioned to an
online platform and necessary measures are
being     undertaken      to    ensure         seamless
implementation.
1.2.4.4 Transferable Development Rights
        (TDR)
        The   Government       has     approved       the
implementation     of   Transferable        Development
Rights (TDR) in the Development Regulations of
Second Master Plan for Chennai Metropolitan
Area in 2008. Further, the TDR is incorporated in
the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and
Building Rules, 2019 and are in force for the


                          47
                         47
entire       state.    The   concept    of     transferable
development rights was introduced to obtain the
land required for public infrastructure projects,
such as road widening, formation of new roads,
bus stops / stands, Metro Rail, MRTS and any
other urban infrastructure developments notified
by     the     State    Government      department      or
Government agency or local body. The TDR in
the form        of Development Rights Certificate
(DRC) is issued to the developers/owners, who
gift their land portion for these purposes. CMDA
has issued 137 DRCs in lieu of the land given for
road     widening      and   44    Special   Transferable
Development Rights to the Tamil Nadu Urban
Habitat       Development     Board    (TNUHDB).       The
online process for the issuance of digitally e-
signed Transfer of Development Rights (TDR)
certificates has been successfully implemented.
This     facilitates     paperless     work,     enhances
efficiency, ensures authenticity, and reduces
processing time.

                             48
                              48
1.2.4.5 Enforcement Cell
      The   Enforcement         Cell    of    the   Chennai
Metropolitan    Development            Authority    (CMDA)
plays a critical role in ensuring the compliance of
building    regulations     within           the    Chennai
Metropolitan Area, exercising its authority under
Sections 56 and 57 of the Tamil Nadu Town and
Country Planning Act, 1971.
   The key functions of Enforcement Cell are:
    Enforcement of Planning Regulations:
      Ensures       compliance           with       building
      regulations    for    structures          constructed
      based on CMDA-approved building plans.
    Delegation of Enforcement powers:
      The Enforcement Cell has delegated its
      powers under Sections 56 and 57 of the
      Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning
      Act, 1971, to all the Local Bodies within
      the Chennai Metropolitan Area to ensure
      widespread compliance.



                           49
                           49
 Issuance of Completion Certificates:
  Completion      Certificates       are     issued    for
  buildings     that   strictly      adhere     to    the
  approved CMDA building plans and the
  Completion       Certificate        guidelines       as
  prescribed by the Tamil Nadu Combined
  Development and Building Rules, 2019
  (TNCDBR).
 Enforcement                Action            against
  Unauthorized Constructions:
  The   Enforcement          Cell    takes     stringent
  action against unauthorized constructions
  by issuing Locking & Sealing Notices and
  Demolition     Notices      for    properties       that
  deviate from the CMDA-approved plans.
  The Cell also undertakes the Locking &
  Sealing process and demolition of illegal
  structures.
  The   following      are     the    key      activities
  performed by the Enforcement Cell in the
  previous year.

                       50
                       50
   Completion Certificates Issued: A total
       of 426 Completion Certificates were issued
       in the year 2024 for buildings meeting the
       approved CMDA plans and TNCDBR norms.
   Locking        &     Sealing      and        Demolition
       Notices:     55      Locking   &     Sealing        and
       Demolition Notices were issued in the year
       2024 for unauthorized constructions.
   Locking & Sealing: 25 buildings were
       locked and sealed in the year 2024 as part
       of   enforcement        actions      against     non-
       compliant structures.
   Demolitions: 6 buildings were demolished
       in   the   year      2024   due      to    significant
       deviations from CMDA-approved plans or
       for unauthorized construction activities.
1.2.5 Road and Rail Unit
1.2.5.1 MRTS Phase II Extension
       The extension of the MRTS Phase II,
covering a stretch of approximately 5 kilometers
from    Velachery      to    St.   Thomas         Mount,    is

                             51
                             51
currently under implementation at a total cost of
Rs. 732.89 crore. The Government of Tamil
Nadu has released its full contribution of Rs.
488.62 crore to Southern Railways for the
execution    of     the    project.    This   initiative,
undertaken     by    the     Metropolitan     Transport
Projects (Railways), is nearing completion. The
project is expected to be fully operational by
2025,    significantly     enhancing    transportation
infrastructure and connectivity in the region.
1.2.5.2 Master Plan for Outer Ring Road
        Growth Corridor
        The Chennai Outer Ring Road (ORR),
originally envisioned in the First Master Plan for
Chennai, spans a total length of 62.3 km from
Vandalur to Minjur. To foster sustainable urban
development and minimize Chennai's ecological
footprint, as well as to address the city's growing
developmental and economic needs, a Detailed
Development Plan (Master Plan) is being drafted
for the region within a 1 km radius on either side


                            52
                            52
of the ORR. This plan will outline the proposed
land use, regulatory framework, and future road
network for the area, facilitating better access to
these lands and unlocking their full development
potential. The plan aims to promote high-
density, high-rise constructions with a minimal
ground footprint, land amalgamation and land
pooling initiatives, with a primary focus on
meeting the future urban development demands
of the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA).
   The     Chennai           Metropolitan     Development
Authority (CMDA) owns a 50-meter-wide land
strip    along    the    eastern      side   of   the    ORR,
designated       for    commercial      development.       To
catalyze development along this corridor, CMDA
has allocated portions of this land to key
entities, including the Tamil Nadu Industrial
Development        Corporation        (TIDCO),     the    Fire
Department,            the     Metropolitan       Transport
Corporation       (MTC),        the     State     Industries
Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT),

                               53
                               53
Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL) and the Central
Warehousing Corporation (CWC). These land
allocations     are   designed          to    initiate     seed
development projects that will drive further
growth in the area. Furthermore, CMDA has
developed an idle parking facility for Omni buses
at Mudichur and is in the process of completing
the establishment of                four fitness parks at
Minjur,       Vellanur,    Thirunageswaram,                 and
Varadharajapuram          to        support    the       overall
development and well-being of the region.
1.3 New Initiatives
1.3.1     Chennai Waterfront                  Development
           Projects Limited
        Chennai's coastline and its vast network of
lakes are invaluable natural assets and their
potential for sustainable development has been
untapped for decades. These waterfronts are
ecological     treasures       and     support       economic
activities like fisheries, tourism and recreation.
However, their integration into urban life has

                               54
                               54
been limited, leaving opportunities for creating
vibrant public spaces, underutilized.
      To address this, the Government of Tamil
Nadu has established the Chennai Waterfront
Development Projects Limited, a Special Purpose
Vehicle,    to    drive   sustainable      shoreline   and
lakefront revitalization across the city. CWDPL
has begun revitalising 13 lakes across Chennai
and 4 beach stretches this year to pave the way
for transformative urban integration of these
blue assets while creating vibrant community
spaces     that    underscore      the    importance    of
environmental stewardship at a cost of more
than Rs.250 crores.
1.3.2 Shoreline Development
      The         project        ‘Integrated      Coastal
Community          Development           for   Kasimedu,
Thiruvotriyur, Injambakkam and Akkarai’ has
been envisioned as a community development
project that would aid in the development of
coastal communities, improve access and safety

                            55
                            55
for beach users and support the livelihood of
coastal communities. The design instils minimal
interventions that can support revitalization of
the coastal commons. The project components
include    pedestrian      and      cycling   facilities    at
Injambakkam         and    Akkarai      and     pedestrian
facilities at Kasimedu and Thiruvotriyur user
amenities, and ecologically sensitive landscaping
of the project areas. The four projects have been
undertaken as pilot initiatives to sensitise local
communities,        spread        awareness,       prevent
encroachment         and      degradation         of       the
environment. Additionally, three more beaches—
Ennore, Kovalam, and Besant Nagar—are being
integrated into the project, with Detailed Project
Reports (DPRs) currently under preparation.
1.3.3 Lakefront Development
      As     part     of      its      commitment           to
environmental stewardship, CMDA has initiated
the Lakefront Development Project to conserve
and enhance Chennai’s lakes while prioritizing

                             56
                             56
water       quality      improvement,       sustainable
development and minimal concretization.
        A total of 12 lakes have been identified for
development. At present, work is under progress
for Perumbakkam, Velachery, Mudichur, Puzhal,
Retteri,        Ayanambakkam,          Kolathur,        and
Seekanan        lakes.   Also,   works     are     to    be
commenced in Sembakkam, Porur, Perungudi,
and Madambakkam lakes.
        The project envisions transforming these
lakefronts into vibrant public spaces that reflect
the     local    community’s     character,        address
stakeholder needs, and respect the ecological
integrity of the sites. The design approach
emphasizes the use of permeable surfaces,
sustainable       landscaping,    and     nature-based
urban      design, ensuring      the   preservation      of
natural contours and lake ecology.
        In addition to infrastructure enhancement
and stakeholder collaboration, the initiative aims
to improve water quality, support groundwater

                            57
                           57
recharge and serve as an educational space for
children to learn about water conservation and
ecological balance. With a strong focus on
sustainability, the project promotes a “cement-
free” approach to development.

1.3.4 Ornamental Fish Market in Kolathur

      CMDA is constructing an Ornamental Fish
Market in Vada Chennai. Planned in an extent of
3.94 acres of land, the market will facilitate and
promote the informal ornamental fish trading
sector in Chennai and will benefit a number of
vendors and the public, besides improving the
livelihood of the people.
1.3.5 Citizen Service Center
      CMDA is setting up a Citizen Service
Center in Vada Chennai. Being constructed in
0.82 acres, the center will house a Tahsildar
Office, a Sub-Registrar Office, an Anchor Store,
Co-working Space, and general office spaces.




                        58
                        58
1.3.6 Mudhalvar Padaippagam

     To help students belonging to middle- and
low-income groups aim for various competitive
examinations, especially for the use of people in
North Chennai, a state-of-the-art ‘Mudhalvar
Padaippagam’, a coworking and learning space,
was initiated as the first of its kind and was
inaugurated by the Hon’ble Tamil Nadu Chief
Minister on 04.11.2024, in Vada Chennai. The
Mudhalvar Padaippagam provides affordable co-
working    and   e-learning   spaces,   conference
facility with amenities for entrepreneurs and
students   preparing   for    various   competitive
examinations.    The air-conditioned Mudhalvar
Padaippagam facility has various features such
as a spacious reading room, library, cafeteria,
plug and play co-working space with free wi-fi
facilities, conference and meeting rooms, safe
drinking water and toilets. More than 6,000
students and youth from low-income families are


                        59
                        59
benefitting from the Mudhalvar Padaippagam
every month and it has been welcomed by the
public.

1.3.7 Wetland Eco Park in Porur

      CMDA has developed a sprawling Wetland
Eco Park and Playground at Porur, on 16.63
acres of OSR land.

      This       park           has     been      developed
incorporating various components/ facilities like
children’s play area, entrance gallery, wetland
and sponge ponds & water play, Open Air
Theatre and community gathering space, play
courts,   lake   plaza,         pollinator   garden,     toilet
blocks and kiosks.

      This    park        has    been    named      as    "Dr.
M.S.Swaminathan            Wetland       Eco     Park”,     in
recognition          of          the         services       of
Dr. M.S.Swaminathan, who is known as the
“Father of India's Green Revolution" and was

                                60
                                 60
inaugurated by the Hon’ble Chief Minister on
07.03.2025.

1.3.8 Development Projects in CMA

     In line with the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority's (CMDA) ongoing efforts
to    improve        urban          infrastructure,    a
comprehensive development initiative has been
undertaken for each Legislative Constituency
within the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA), by
taking into account the basic needs of the
people.   This   initiative    is   being   carried   out
through   collaborative       consultations   with    the
Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs)
representing each constituency. For the fiscal
year 2024-2025, CMDA has launched several
projects under this program, which are detailed
below:




                          61
                          61
                        (Rs. in crores)

 S.                               No of
         Type of Project                    Estimate
 No.                             Projects

  1    Bus Stands                   5         138.99
       Education                    2          60.81
  2
       Development
  3    Social Development          13         317.65
  4    Parks                        5          42.82
       Sports Complexes/            5          49.89
  5
       Playgrounds
  6    Urban Design Projects        3           14.00
  7    Market Development           4          70.75
       Waterfront                   4          34.15
  8
       Development
           Total                   41        729.06


       The   Chennai    Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) remains committed and takes
significant steps to foster sustainable urban
development and enhance public infrastructure
across the Chennai Metropolitan Area. Through
implementation of strategic initiatives such as
the    upcoming      mofussil    bus    terminus   at
Kuthambakkam, Dr. M.S. Swaminathan Wetland
Eco Park in Porur, the digital transformation of


                            62
                            62
planning approvals and the development of
North Chennai through Vada Chennai Valarchi
Thittam, CMDA continues to improve urban
mobility, streamline governance and enhance
the quality of life for citizens.
        In the last year, CMDA has prioritized
infrastructure expansion, digital integration, and
environmental     sustainability      considering   the
region’s growing urban demands. With a focus
on   smart    initiatives,    efficient   transportation
systems, and citizen-centric services, CMDA is
taking initiatives to drive Chennai’s growth as a
modern and well-connected metropolis. Moving
forward, efforts will continue to ensure seamless
urban    planning, technological          advancements,
and inclusive development for all.
   
  
                                         388.
                                                 388

                     P.K. SEKARBABU
             Minister for Hindu Religious and
                 Charitable Endowments

                             63
                             63
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu launched 6 new projects at an estimated cost of Rs.115.58
crores to be implemented by the CMDA, under the Vada Chennai Valarchi Thittam scheme on
26.08.2024.




                                                                                                     1
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, launched the Kolathur Ornamental Fish Trade Centre being
developed by CMDA at an estimated cost of Rs.53.50 crores in 3.93 acres under the Vada Chennai
Valarchi Thittam scheme and reviewed the model design of the facility on 26.08.2024.




                                                                                                     2
As per the guidance of the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Rs.43.33 crore of CMDA funds were
handed over to the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu on 18.09.2024, in the presence of
the Hon’ble Deputy Chief Minister and the Hon’ble Minister for HR&CE and Chairman, CMDA.




                                                                                                     3
As per the guidance of the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Rs.66 crore of CMDA funds were
handed over to the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj on 07.10.2024, for the
improvement of roads in village panchayats within the Chennai Metropolitan region, in the presence of
the Hon’ble Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj and the Hon’ble Minister for HR&CE
and Chairman, CMDA.




                                                                                                        4
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, launched 6 new projects undertaken by
the CMDA at an estimated cost of Rs. 98.21 crore, on 29.10.2024.




                                                                                  5
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, inaugurated the “Mudhalvar Padaippagam" on 04.11.2024,
at Jagannathan Street, Kolathur, jointly developed by the CMDA and the Greater Chennai
Corporation, at a total cost of Rs.5 crore under the Vada Chennai Valarchi Thittam Scheme.




                                                                                                   6
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, inaugurated the “Mudhalvar Padaippagam" at Kolathur on
04.11.2024 and interacted with the students.




                                                                                                   7
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, launched 79 projects and inaugurated 29 projects
implemented by 5 departments at a total estimated cost of Rs.1,383 crores under the Vada Chennai
Valarchi Thittam scheme (which include 15 projects at a cost of Rs.421 crores being implemented by
CMDA). The Hon’ble Chief Minister also inspected the models of 2 Housing tenement projects
benefiting 1,476 households at a cost of Rs.273.06 crores, being implemented by CMDA.




                                                                                                     8
The Hon’ble Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, inspected the proposed sites for the Library
Development Project and the Multi-Purpose Centre to be established in Royapettah and Triplicane
areas of Chennai, on 21.12.2024.




                                                                                                  9
As per the guidance of the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, the Hon’ble Minister for HR&CE and
Chairman, CMDA, launched the “Kalaignar Centenary Bus Terminus Mobile App (KCBT Mobile App)”
on 21.01.2025.




                                                                                                      10
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, inspected the construction works of the Kolathur
Ornamental Fish Trade Centre, being implemented under the Vada Chennai Valarchi Thittam scheme,
by the CMDA, at an estimated cost of Rs.53.50 crore at 3.93 acres, on 31.01.2025.




                                                                                                  11
A fund of Rs.84.17 crore from CMDA funds were handed over to the Tamil Nadu Medical Services
Corporation for the procurement of medical equipment for the Government Hospital at Periyar Nagar,
Kolathur, Chennai, under the Vada Chennai Valarchi Thittam scheme in the presence of the Hon’ble
Minister for Health and Family Welfare and the Hon’ble Minister for HR&CE and Chairman, CMDA.




                                                                                                     12
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, inaugurated development works carried out at a total
cost of Rs. 39.75 crore undertaken by the CMDA, including the Dr. M.S. Swaminathan Wetland
Eco Park in Porur, the modernization works of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex and the
Sathangadu Iron and Steel Market Complex, and launched 10 new development projects at
an estimated cost of Rs.70.70 crore, on 07.03.2025.




                                                                                                 13
The Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, inspected the ongoing construction works of the Exhibition
Centre being developed at an estimated cost of Rs.113 crore at Island Grounds, Chennai, by CMDA,
on 07.03.2025.




                                                                                                       14
The Hon’ble Minister for HR&CE and Chairman, CMDA, inspected various development projects
being undertaken by the CMDA across the Chennai Metropolitan Area.




                                                                                            15
