                                                       FINANCE DEPARTMENT


                                                                   POLICY NOTE
                                                                    2022 - 2023




                                                                 DEMAND No. 16




                                                     Dr. PALANIVEL THIAGA RAJAN
                                                     Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management




                                                                 Government of Tamil Nadu
                                                                         2022
Printed by Govt. Central Press, Chennai - 600 001.
                    INDEX

Sl.
                    Subject                 Page
No.
1.    Introduction                           1
2.    Audit Departments
       i.    Local Fund Audit Department     31
       ii.   Co-operative Audit
                                             51
             Department
      iii.   State Government Audit
                                             59
             Department
      iv.    Department of Audit for Milk
                                             65
             Co-operatives
       v.    Hindu Religious Institutions
                                             73
             Audit Department
3.    Administrative Departments
       i.    Treasuries and Accounts
                                             76
             Department
       ii.   Small Savings Department        92
4.    Other Agencies
       i.    Tamil Nadu Infrastructure
                                             95
             Development Board
       ii.   Tamil Nadu Infrastructure
             Fund Management                101
             Corporation Limited
      ANNEXURES
ii
                  POLICY NOTE

                DEMAND NO.16

            FINANCE DEPARTMENT

         POLICY NOTE FOR THE YEAR
                   2022-2023

Introduction:

“பிணியின்மை செல்வம் விமைவின்பம் ஏைம்
அணிசென்ப நாட்டிற்கிவ் மவந்து”
                                       (குறள் 738)

Absence of disease, bountiful harvest, wealth,
general happiness and security, these five are the
jewels of a country.

      2. The Finance Department is vested with
the responsibility of managing the public finances
of the Government of Tamil Nadu prudently.
The main functions of the Finance Department
are:

  i.    Preparing the Annual Budget, i.e., the
        statement of the estimated Revenue and
        Expenditure of the State to be laid before
        the Legislature under Article 202 of the
        Constitution of India.

 ii.    Managing the public finances of the
        Government of Tamil Nadu as the custodian
        of the state exchequer.

 iii.   Formulation of policies of the State
        Government in respect of overall financial
        management of the State and review of the
        policies as and when the need arises.

 iv.    Critical  scrutiny    and   evaluation    of
        expenditure      proposals    of     various
        departments of the Government with
        reference to need, cost effectiveness,
        budget allocation and financial procedure,
        keeping in mind the fiscal objectives of the
        Government.




                          2
 v.    Overall responsibility of balancing receipts
       and payments and ensuring that debt
       obligations are met.

 vi.   Manage the overall borrowing requirement
       of the State and ensure that the borrowed
       funds are effectively utilized.

VISION:

       3. The vision of the Finance Department is
to ensure sustainability of fiscal health of the
State through prudent fiscal management, with a
broad prioritization of sectors and initiatives.
The department also adopts modern practices
with    technological       interventions,      to    tackle
the    evolving        challenges.     The   Department
manages the macro elements of the annual
budget in terms of aggregate level of receipts and
expenditure.

       4. Within this framework, the department
aims   to   delegate      more       autonomy    to   other
departments       on     expenditure    decisions     while

                              3
ensuring    that   accountability        is   substantially
enhanced.    Further,   the     department        ensures
effective utilization of public money and plans to
make the audit system more robust and effective.
These objectives are proposed to be achieved
through various initiatives and interventions, such
as:

   •   Strengthening the IFHRMS and Treasury
       System

   •   Tracking the fund flow to other departments
       and agencies

   •   Strengthening of the Audit System

   •   Adoption of modern budgetary practices

   •   Increase accountability and productivity

   •   Enhance     efficiency       of        procurement
       processes




                          4
                 NEW INITIATIVES

         5. This department has taken the following
initiatives for better Financial Management in the
State.

(i) ECONOMIC ADVISORY COUNCIL

         6. The Government has constituted an
‘Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister
of Tamil Nadu’ with renowned global economic
experts viz. Prof. Esther Duflo, Prof. Raghuram
Rajan, Dr. Arvind Subramanian, Prof.Jean Dreze
and Dr. S. Narayan, I.A.S (Retd). With the expert
advice of the Council, the Government aims to
deliver on faster economic growth, social justice
and equity through new programmes, projects
and enhanced service delivery.

The terms of reference of the Council are as
follows:

   (i)     Provide general guidance on economic
           and social policy, social justice and

                          5
    human development related issues,
    in   particular, matters    related to
    ensuring equal opportunities for women
    and the well-being of under privileged
    groups.

(ii) Make suggestions for boosting growth,
     employment and productivity in the
     State.

(iii) Provide guidance on improving the overall
      fiscal health of the State.

(iv) Advise on improving State capacity to
     deliver better services to the people.

(v) Act as a sounding board for new ideas or
    on possible solutions to intransigent road
    blocks.

(vi) Analyse and provide advice on any
     issue of economic and social policy
     referred to the Council or its members by
     the Chief Minister or the Minister of
     Finance      and    Human       Resources
     Management.




                     6
      7. The Finance Department has organized
series of meetings with the members of the
Council on the challenges faced by the various
sectors during the Covid pandemic and the
measures   that   need   to    be    taken   post   the
pandemic. Some of the suggestions made by the
members have been translated into schemes and
policy initiatives of the Government.

(ii) FEDERAL FISCAL MODEL

      8. In the Budget Speech 2021-2022, it was
announced that the Government will establish an
advisory council to develop a Federal Fiscal Model
with renowned experts on legislation involving
revenue and taxation (including GST). Based on
the   announcement,      the        Government      has
constituted an advisory council to develop a
Federal Fiscal Model under the Chairmanship of
Thiru. Arvind P. Datar, Senior Advocate, Supreme
Court along with the following Members vide



                         7
G.O.(Ms.)No.101,   Finance   (FC-I)   Department,
Dated 02.04.2022:-

         1. Thiru. K.Vaitheeswaran,     Advocate,
            Madras High Court.
         2. Thiru.    G.Natarajan,      Advocate,
            Madras High Court.
         3. Thiru. Suresh Raman, Vice President
            and Region Head, TCS-Service Sector.
         4. Thiru.    Srivats   Ram,     Managing
            Director, Wheels India Limited.
         5. Thiru. K.Velmurugan, President, Hosur
            Small and Tiny Industries Association.

The terms of reference of the Advisory Council are
as follows:

      1) To study the fiscal powers of the
         State and the Union with special
         reference to GST.

      2) To study the levy of Cesses and
         Surcharges by the Union and its impact
         on the State’s finances.




                        8
3) To analyse the fiscal scenario of the
   State.

4) To identify the problems with the
   institutional mechanisms that supports
   GST which include the independence of
   decision makers and constitution of GST
   Tribunal.

5) To identify the compliance issues faced
   by the large Industries, MSMEs, Service
   Sector and Consumers in order to bring
   them to the notice of the GST Council.

6) To identify difficulties with respect to
   GST    rates     applied    to   various
   commodities.

7) To suggest strategies to improve GST
   collections and other taxes of the State.

8) To study the best practices adopted in
   other states with respect to GST
   including use of technology and artificial
   intelligence to identify tax evasion.

9) Any other issues which, in the opinion
   of the Chairman, is relevant to the
   Union-State fiscal relations.


                  9
       9. The first meeting of the Council was held
on 11th April, 2022 at the Secretariat in Chennai.

(iii) NEW ASSET MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

       10. In the Budget Speech 2022-2023, it was
also announced,

       “with a view to account for all movable
and immovable assets of the Government
and to monitor their utilization, a new asset
management system will be introduced and
integrated with the Integrated Financial and
Human      Resources      Management         System
(IFHRMS) from the coming year.”

       11. Based on the above announcement, a
Cloud Based Asset Management Software has
been    developed   by   TNeGA    to   optimize   the
resource utilization by tracking the life cycle of all
assets in Government departments.




                         10
      12. This Software is being upgraded based
on    the   requirements.    This    would     allow
departments to know accurately all the assets
owned by them. This would, in turn, enable
proper accounting, budgeting for maintenance
ensuring longer life for the assets. The data so
collected would be fetched in the IFHRMS for
purpose of accounting and better budgeting.

      13. The departments of Public Department
(in   Secretariat),   Revenue       and      Disaster
Management,    O/o.DGP      and   Commercial     Tax
Departments have uploaded their asset details
using Cloud Based Asset Management System
Software on pilot basis. The Finance Department
is also updating the asset details in the above
software and also necessary instructions have
been issued to the Heads of Departments under
the control of Finance Department to update the
details through the DDOs concerned.



                       11
(iv) E-PROCUREMENT PORTAL
       14. In the Budget Speech 2021-2022, it was
announced that

         “E-procurement will be mandatorily
adopted across all procuring entities.
A separate e-procurement portal will be
created for the Government of Tamil Nadu to
enhance     transparency  in    Government
procurement.”

       15.   Based     on     the      announcement    a
multi-department       Core      committee       and   a
Technical Committee was formed for finalizing
specific requirements and considering National
Informatics Centre (NIC) as a single source
for    entrusting   the     Creation    of   a   separate
e-procurement portal for the Government of
Tamil Nadu.

       16. Based on the Technical Committee
recommendations, work order has been placed
with    National     Informatics       Centre    Services


                            12
Incorporated (NICSI) for implementation of the
e-procurement        through      National      Informatics
Centre (NIC). The total project cost including
customization requirement and State wide rollout
is Rs.501.51 lakhs for 3 years (April 2022-
March 2025). A sum of Rs.167.17 lakhs has been
released      as   advance     payment    for    the   year
2022-2023. The new e-procurement portal would
be compliant with the provisions under TNTIT Act,
1998 and Rules, 2000. All procurement by public
procuring      entities   of      the   Government       of
Tamil Nadu would be done through the online
portal from April 1st, 2023. The Government
intends to bring necessary amendments in the
existing rules and procedures to facilitate this
transition.

      17. On similar lines, the Government has
also constituted a Task Force to make suggestions
and indicate requirements/customization in the
existing PRICE Software of GePNIC for fulfilling

                             13
pre   and     post     tendering    activities   through
electronic mode. This would be a major step
towards     bringing    in   more   transparency    and
efficiency in procurements by the Government
and Public Sector entities.

(v) LITIGATION RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
      18. Based on the announcement made
during the Revised Budget Speech 2021-2022,
that a Litigation Risk Management System would
be established, the Government have constituted
a High-Powered Litigation Advisory and Oversight
Committee (LAOC) vide G.O.(D)No.18, Finance
(OP-M) Department, Dated 19.03.2022 to offer
strategic guidance regarding High Risk Litigation
with the following members: -

Sl.
                     Committee members
No.
 1.   Justice.K.Kannan,
      Retired Judge of Punjab and Haryana High
      Court and Former Chairman,
      Railways Claims Tribunal

                             14
Sl.
                     Committee members
No.
 2.    Advocate Joseph Prabhakar,
       Expert in Indirect Taxation
 3.    Advocate K. Ravi,
       Expert in Direct Taxation
 4.    Advocate V.Lakshmi Narayanan,
       Expert in Civil Litigation
 5.    Additional Chief Secretary to Government,
       Finance Department
 6.    Secretary to Government,
       Legal Affairs


       19. The function of the said committee,
among others is to suggest strategies to reduce
financial risk to the exchequer due to litigation, to
consider and advise multiple approaches and line
of    arguments      to   be   adopted    before   judicial
forums, to assess the possibility of success in a
particular case and advise the government on the
possibilities   of     compromise,       modification   of
position, to suggest measures to Government to
                               15
reduce the financial risk from high risk cases and
to monitor compliance in order to avoid excess
cost like penal interest for delay.

         In order to closely monitor cases involving
huge financial risk to the Government, a separate
facility will be opened for High-Risk Litigation
within    the     Integrated      Court      Case    Monitoring
system.

(vi) STRENGTHENING OF FINANCE (BUREAU
OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES) DEPARTMENT

       20. As a part of strengthening Finance
(Bureau      of     Public      Enterprises)        Department,
a     Request      for     Proposal     has    been       floated
on     20.04.2022        for     selection     of    Consultant
for Financial and Operational Analysis of past
and    current      performance         through       annual    /
quarterly         reports,       current      Board       notes,
Medium Term Vision statement and performance
trends     of     Public       Sector   Undertakings         and
Statutory       Boards         under    Bureau       of    Public
                                 16
Enterprises in Tamil Nadu and to act as a Project
Management Unit in Finance (Bureau of Public
Enterprises) Department.

(vii) NABARD PROJECT MONITORING UNIT

      21. A “NABARD Project Monitoring Unit” will
be created to actively follow up proposals pending
with NABARD, monitor the implementation of
sanctioned projects on the field and expedite the
disbursal of funds, with the objective of effective
implementation of NABARD projects. This Unit will
also be tasked with exploring other options of
institutional finance, which can be leveraged by
the State to fund projects of the Government.

(viii) BUDGET INITIATIVES

TOP-DOWN BUDGETING

      22.   With   the   intention      of   introducing
modern      practices    in    budget        formulation,
the   Top-Down     Budgeting    concept       has   been


                          17
introduced for the following five Demands for
Grants in the Budget for 2022-2023.

       (i)     Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare
       (ii)    Dairy Development
       (iii)   Environment and Climate Change
       (iv)    Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
       (v)     Welfare of Differently Abled Persons

       The Top-Down Budgeting method seeks
to provide greater delegation to departments
to     speed-up       decision        making,     improve
implementation, reduce costs and avoid time
overruns while ensuring greater accountability.

       23.     In    the   existing     system,    budget
proposals are called for and meetings are held
with   the     concerned     departments,       where   the
requirements for each object of expenditure are
examined       and    then    fixed    by   the    Finance
Department. These finalized amounts are added
to arrive at the total allocation.




                             18
       24. In the ‘Top-Down Budgeting’ system,
the department specific overall annual Revenue,
Capital and Loan outlays will be determined
and    then   communicated        to   the     Department,
which can further distribute the outlay among
different     items   of   expenditure         under    the
sub-heads,      detailed   heads       and     sub-detailed
heads. Further, the Head of Department will be
able   to   re-appropriate      the    funds    allotted, if
necessary, during the course of the financial year,
subject to certain conditions.

CITIZEN’S GUIDE TO BUDGET

       25. As a new initiative in the domain of
budgetary publications, the Finance Department
has published the ‘Citizen’s Guide to Budget’ for
the financial year 2022-2023, with the aim of
improving transparency. The document presents
the crux of the Budget in a simple and graphical
format that people can easily understand. This
document will serve as a tool to increase citizen

                           19
awareness of the Budget and encourage informed
debates on Government’s finances.

IMF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

      26. The Finance Department is collaborating
with the International Monetary Fund to bring
about reforms in Public Financial Management in
the State, notably in budget formulation and fiscal
risk management.

      Three special units have been formed in
Finance Department viz. Macro Fiscal Unit, Fiscal
Risk Management Unit and Debt and Resources
Management Unit for implementing the Public
Financial Management reform activities.

      In the first phase, the Citizen’s Guide to the
Budget has been published for the Financial Year
2022-2023 and the Top-Down budgeting method
has been introduced for 5 demands for grants.
Further, the Finance Department will prepare


                        20
a Fiscal Risk Statement and a Medium-Term
Fiscal Framework.

(ix) SPECIAL TASK FORCE
        27.    In tune with the announcement made
in the Budget speech 2021-2022, a Special Task
Force       (STF)    has    been     constituted   with    the
following broad objectives:

        •      To fully reconcile the Bank
               accounts and identify funds
               which have lapsed and which
               are unutilised.

        •      To ensure that all funds of the
               Government are kept within
               view of the Treasury System.”

        28.    Bank        Account    details   have      been
collected from the Banks, from the Departments
and also from the District Collectors. The details
have    been        mapped     and    cross-verified.     Data
inconsistency and mismatch have been noticed in
the data collected from different sources. In order

                               21
to address these issues bi-lateral reconciliation
process with Banks through SLBC and Districts
through PA (Accounts) has been initiated.
       By this process, the STF has identified
dormant funds which can be ploughed back to
State Exchequer. The STF is continuing its work
with auditing the reported data and is pursuing its
task. The STF will have a tenure till 31.03.2023
to complete its task.

(x) INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME

       29. An Internship programme has been
introduced    in    Finance      Department      for   Post
graduates / bonafide students pursuing research
programmes in reputed institutions. The training
programme is to harness the talent of students
and    researchers    in   the    field   of   Economics,
Finance,     Law,    Commerce,       Management        and
Information Technology and Statistics, by giving
them    exposure      to   the     functioning    of   the



                           22
department     through   diligent   and   scholarly
research work.

     30. Bharathidasan Institute of Management
(BIM), Tiruchirappalli is the Academic Partner for
the implementation of this Internship programme.
This Institute will carry out the selection and
evaluation for the programme.

❖ The primary objectives of the programme:

     i)      Short term exposure for selected
             candidates in the Department of
             Finance, Government of Tamil Nadu
     ii)     Opportunity for selected candidates to
             enhance their academic knowledge
     iii)    Opportunity for selected candidates to
             know about Government functioning
             and developmental policy issues
     iv)     Selected candidates to contribute to
             policy formulation by engaging in
             research, analysis, etc.




                         23
❖ Key areas for research through Interns:

     i)      Tamil     Nadu          Infrastructure
             Development Board
     ii)     Annual Budget
     iii)    Central   and        State    Finance
             Commissions
     iv)     Externally Aided Projects
     v)      Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders
             Act and Rules
     vi)     Resources
     vii)    Loans
     viii)   Audit
     ix)     Treasury Functions


❖ Initially 20 students will be inducted to the
  programme for a duration of 6 months to one
  year. A monthly stipend of Rs.20,000/- will be
  given to the interns.




                          24
❖ Interns will be selected through an internet-
  based test carried out by the Bharathidasan
  Institute of Management, Tiruchirappalli.

❖ Interns will undergo an orientation programme
  organized     by   Bharathidasan   Institute   of
  Management (BIM), Tiruchirappalli and the
  Finance Department at Anna Administrative
  Staff College, Chennai.

❖ On completion, internship certificates will be
  issued based on scientific and evidence-based
  project report submitted by the Interns and a
  comprehensive oral examination by the panel
  of experts.

    STRUCTURE OF FINANCE DEPARTMENT

      31. The following departments/agencies
  are under the administrative control of Finance
  Department: -




                        25
Audit Departments
 i. Local Fund Audit Department
ii. Co-operative Audit Department
iii. State     Government          Audit
     Department
iv. Department of Audit for Milk Co-
    operatives
v. Hindu Religious Institutions Audit
   Department
Administrative Departments
 i. Treasuries      and         Accounts
    Department
ii. Government Data Centre
iii. Small Savings Department
iv. Directorate of Pension
Other agencies
 i. Tamil    Nadu         Infrastructure
    Development Board
ii. Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund
    Management Corporation Limited




             26
       The      functions      of        the    above
departments/agencies, except the Directorate of
Pension and Government Data Centre which are
included in the Policy Note on Demand No.50.
“Pension and Other Retirement Benefits”, are
detailed in this note.


                  AUDIT DEPARTMENTS

      32. The following Audit departments are
functioning   under      the   control    of   Finance
Department

     Sl.No.         Name of the Audit
                      Department
     1.       Local Fund Audit Department
     2.       Co-operative Audit Department
     3.       State Government Audit
              Department
     4.       Department of Audit for Milk
              Co-operatives
     5.       Hindu Religious Institutions
              Audit Department

                          27
        DIRECTOR GENERAL OF AUDIT

      33. In the Governor’s Address made on
21st June, 2021 on the floor of the Tamil Nadu
Legislative Assembly, it was pointed out that the
audit and oversight functions need a thorough
overhaul.      In   the    Policy   Note     of     Finance
Department for the year 2021-2022, it has been
stated that “A position of Director General of
State Audit will be created to oversee all the
existing audit agencies of the State Government.
Ideally, the Director General will be drawn from
the   Indian    Audit     and    Accounts    Service    on
deputation. The Director General of Audit will
function as the sole Administrative / Supervisory
Head of Department for Audit functions in respect
of all Audit departments. Based on the above, in
the   G.O.(Ms.)No.102,          Finance    (Local    Fund)
Department, Dated 07.04.2022 a post of Director
General of Audit has been created to oversee all




                            28
the Audit Departments functioning under the
administrative control of Finance Department.

        34. In order to study the functioning of
all    the   Audit    departments    and   to   give
recommendations to streamline the processes and
functioning of the Audit department, an Audit
Reforms Committee has been constituted.         The
composition of the Audit Reforms Committee is as
follows:


      Chairman: Thiru.Sundaram Prabhu, IAAS
                (Retired), Formerly Principal
                Accountant   General,  Tamil
                Nadu and Karnataka.

      Members:   1)    Thiru.Selwyn    Joseph,
                       Formerly      Additional
                       Director of Co-operative
                       Audit.

                 2)    Tmt.K.Pramila,
                       Director of Audit for Milk
                       Co-operatives.




                          29
The key Terms of Reference of the Committee
are:

   •   To study the audit process of the audit
       departments.
   •   To suggest international best practices in
       internal audit.
   •   Possibility of establishing a comprehensive
       IT/IS system.
   •   To study the human resource challenges
       including training needs.
   •   To suggest a robust and well proven
       methodology like Risk based Audit to
       increase the audit coverage.

       35. The Committee will submit its report by
July 2022. On receipt of the recommendations of
this Committee, steps will be taken to create an
integrated audit set up to eliminate redundancy
and ensure effective functioning.

The main functions of the audit departments are
as follows:


                        30
      LOCAL FUND AUDIT DEPARTMENT

     36. The Local Fund Audit Department was
originally entrusted with the task of statutory
audit of the accounts of Urban and Rural Local
Bodies,    Universities,        Agricultural   Market
Committees, Local Library Authorities and other
institutions in the State under the provisions of
the respective Acts governing the institutions. As
per the recommendations of the 2nd State Finance
Commission, the Tamil Nadu Local Fund Audit
Act, 2014 (TN Act No.24 of 2014) was enacted
with effect from 15.12.2014. Tamil Nadu Local
Fund Audit Rules have come into effect from
24.08.2016.

     37. Apart from the audit of the institutions
mentioned in the schedule of the Act, the Director
of Local Fund Audit undertakes statutory audit of
the other institutions with the prior sanction of
the Government under Section 5 of the Act.


                           31
        38. Necessary training has been given by
the Principal Accountant General for preparation
of Audit report to be placed in the Legislative
Assembly.          Tamil     Nadu         Local   Fund      Audit
Rules    2016       provides        for    revision    of    the
audit    report    format    as      and     when     required.
Section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Local Fund Audit
Act, 2014, Tamil Nadu Local Fund Audit Rules
2016, Rule 19 requires DLFA to submit annually
a consolidated report of the accounts of local
bodies audited to the Government, to be laid
before the Legislative Assembly. The following
consolidated       reports     have        been     placed     in
Assembly:


   Sl.
                  Year                     Status
   No.
    1      2015-2016         Placed in Assembly on
                             09.07.2018
    2      2016-2017         Placed in Assembly on
                             05.02.2021


                               32
   Sl.
                 Year                   Status
   No.
    3         2017-2018      Placed in Assembly on
    4         2018-2019      13.09.2021

    5         2019-2020      Placed in Assembly on
                             24.03.2022
    6         2020-2021      Preparation of Audit
                             report is in progress


        39.    The   list   of    Institutions   under   the
purview of Local Fund Audit Department is at
Annexure-I(a).

Scope of Local Fund Audit Department

        40. The audit of Local Body Institutions
done by this Department conforms to the general
requirements expected of a post-audit function.
It relates to checking of accounts and a propriety
audit on the income and expenditure of the
institutions to ensure that the transactions are as
per the relevant Acts and Rules and Government


                                 33
orders and that the accounts represent a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Local Bodies.
Audit is intended to safeguard taxpayer’s money
received by Local Bodies and to ensure that
assistance given by Government and funding
agencies to Local Bodies is utilized for the
purposes for which they have been granted and
for the benefit of the intended beneficiaries.

Test Audit of Village Panchayats
      41. The Local Fund Audit Department is
required to conduct test audit of 22 percent of all
Village Panchayats every year.      Accordingly, the
audit of 2831 Village Panchayats out of 12,524
village Panchayats is taken up every year.

Concurrent Audit of Urban Local Bodies,
Panchayat Raj Institutions and Universities

      42. The "Concurrent Audit System" is in
vogue in 19 Corporations 10 Municipalities and
13 Universities. The Government has introduced


                         34
quarterly audit system in all the Panchayat Unions
from the year 2000-2001. Audit Parties consisting
of one Inspector and one Deputy Inspector or one
Assistant   Inspector   for   every   three   or   four
Panchayat Unions have been constituted and
located at select 116 Panchayat Union Offices.

Implementation of Immediate Post Audit
System in all Corporations and select
Municipalities

       43.(a). Immediate Post Audit is conducted
in 19 Corporations and 10 Municipalities where
Concurrent Audit sections are functioning. Under
this system the payment vouchers are sent to
audit upon making payments and such vouchers
are audited immediately and the defects noticed
communicated to the administration. This system
facilitates the prompt rectification of defects by
the administration. The list of Corporations and
Municipalities taken up for Concurrent Audit can
be seen at Annexure-I(b).


                         35
        (b). The audit objections noticed during the
Concurrent audit are communicated by the audit
parties, to the institutions concerned immediately
in the form of "Audit Slips" and after verifying the
replies received, the objections are admitted or
modified. After consolidating the unsettled audit
slips and other paragraphs relating to receipts
and expenditure, the audit report is finalized and
issued.

Annual Audit          of   Non-Concurrent       Audit
Institutions

        44. The audit of remaining 2 Corporations,
105 Municipalities, 10 Universities and other local
bodies like Town Panchayats, District Panchayats,
Market Committees, Local Library Authorities,
Local     Planning   Authorities   and   miscellaneous
institutions are undertaken every year on receipt
of annual accounts from the auditee institutions.




                           36
Implementation of Accrual Based Accounting
System in Urban Local Bodies
       45. (i) Cash Based system of Accounting
in Urban Local Bodies was replaced by Accrual
Based        system    of   Accounting      in    Municipal
Corporations and Municipalities in two phases
from    the     accounting        year   1999-2000      and
2000-2001. This system has been implemented in
all Town Panchayats with effect from 2002-2003.
The 7-digit web-based accounting system based
on the National Municipal Accounting Manual has
been adopted since 2016-2017.

       ii)    The     objective    and    scope    of   this
accounting system is to follow the Generally
Accepted       Accounting    Principles    and    maintain
Income and Expenditure Accounts to correctly
reflect the financial operations during a year and
also maintain a Balance Sheet to give the true
picture of the assets and liabilities of Urban Local
Bodies at the end of a financial year.


                             37
       iii) This system enables the Urban Local
Bodies to identify and value their assets following
standard valuation methods and incorporating
them in books of accounts through the Asset
Register.   Due    to   transparency   in   the   new
accounting system, various financial institutions
have come forward to extend financial assistance
to Urban Local Bodies for capital projects and
welfare schemes.

Certification of Annual Accounts of Local
Bodies and Universities
      46.(i) Certification of accounts of Local
Bodies is an internationally, accepted requirement
for obtaining financing from funding agencies.
Accordingly, the annual accounts of Urban Local
Bodies are certified by the officers of the Local
Fund Audit Department as per G.O.(Ms.) No.93,
Finance (FC-IV) Department, Dated 28.03.2003,
subsequent to the implementation of the Accrual




                          38
Based Accounting System in the Urban Local
Bodies.

          (ii) Audit certificates are issued by this
department for the utilisation of various grants
released by the State / Central Government, the
University Grants Commission and other Funding
Agencies in respect of Universities which come
under its purview.

Procedure for Settlement of Audit Objections

          47.(i) Taking follow up action on the Audit
Reports is one of the vital functions of this
department.      Irregularities     of     serious       nature
noticed     during     the     course      of     audit      are
immediately     brought       to    the    notice       of   the
Executive     Authorities      of    the        local    bodies
concerned.     Serious       irregularities      and      losses
pointed out in the Audit Reports are reported to
the Government and the Heads of Administrative
Departments          concerned       through            monthly


                              39
periodicals and special reports for necessary
follow up action.

        (ii) In the normal course, the replies to the
audit objections are verified and the objections
are     dropped      if    satisfactory          explanation    is
rendered.     Further,       the       settlement       of   audit
objections is also taken up by the regional and
district level officers of this department through
joint   sittings   arranged           by   the    administrative
departments concerned. On the spot settlement is
made upon satisfactory explanation.

        (iii) As per current best practices, entry
level and exit level discussions with the executive
authorities    are        also   conducted         to   facilitate
rectification of defects pointed out in audit.




                                 40
48. Formation of           District High        Level
Committees   and           State    High        Level
Committees

      District High Level Committees


                 District Collectors



  Panchayat           Town             Municipalities
   Unions           Panchayats         and Municipal
                                       Corporations

       State High Level Committees



 Commissioner        Director of         Director of
    of Rural            Town              Municipal
 Development         Panchayats         Administration
      and
 Panchayat Raj


  Panchayat             Town             Municipalities
   Unions             Panchayats         and Municipal
                                         Corporations



                         41
❖ During     the   period      from      01.04.2021     to
  31.03.2022,       four      District     High      Level
  Committee meetings in respect of Municipal
  Corporation were conducted and 153 audit
  objections of value Rs.2106.09 lakh were
  settled.

❖ During     the   period      from      01.04.2021     to
  31.03.2022,      three       District    High      Level
  Committee        meetings         in     respect      of
  Municipalities      were         conducted          and
  86   special     audit      objections     of   value
  Rs.703.17 lakh were settled.

❖ During     the   period      from      01.04.2021     to
  31.03.2022,       47        District     High      Level
  Committee        meetings         in     respect      of
  Panchayat Unions were conducted and 704
  audit objections of value Rs.3002.07 lakh
  were settled.




                         42
Special Functions
        49. Apart from the regular audit functions,
this   department     is    also   entrusted   with   the
following special functions.

a)     Authorisation and disbursement of
       Pensionary benefits to Local Body
       Employees
          The certification, sanction and payment of
retirement/death benefits to the employees of
local bodies viz: Municipalities, Town Panchayats
and Panchayat Unions is done by the Director of
Local Fund Audit. As on 31.03.2022, 30,490
pensioners      are    receiving     monthly    pension
through four nationalized banks. The funds for the
payment of pension / family pension are released
by the Heads of Departments concerned from the
State Finance Commission Devolution fund.

b)     Redressal of        Local   Body   Pensioners’
       grievances
          An information desk has been opened at
the Directorate of Local Fund Audit for redressal

                             43
of   local    body        pensioner/family         pensioners
grievances and the pensioner/family pensioners
are able to get information required by them
regarding their pension proposals and related
matters without any delay.

c)   Administration of Municipal Pensioner’s
     Health   and   Family   Security  Fund
     Schemes
      The     Health      Fund     Scheme        and    Family
Security     Fund    scheme        have     been     extended
to   municipal      pensioners       in    G.O.(Ms.)No.120,
Municipal     Administration         and     Water      Supply
Department,         Dated    25.05.1999          with      effect
from 01.08.1999. These two welfare schemes
are administered by the Director of Local Fund
Audit. For the period 01.04.2021 to 31.03.2022,
105 claims were settled and Rs.46.31 lakh was
sanctioned under the Pensioners’ Health Fund
Scheme       and    239     claims        were   settled     and
Rs.106 lakh was sanctioned under Family Security
Fund Scheme.

                              44
d)   Administration  of  Panchayat   Union
     Pensioner’s Health and Family Security
     Fund Schemes
        The   Health   Fund      Scheme    and     Family
Security Fund scheme extended to Panchayat
Union    pensioners    in   G.O.(Ms.)     No.23,    Rural
Development       and       Panchayat       Raj      (E7)
Department, Dated15.03.2013 with effect from
01.04.2013 are administered by the Director of
Local Fund Audit. During the period 01.04.2021 to
31.03.2022,     167     claims    were    settled    and
Rs.76.33 lakh was sanctioned under pensioners’
Health Fund Scheme and 392 claims were settled
and Rs.173.54 lakh was sanctioned, under Family
Security Fund Scheme.

e)   Sanction of Interest on Provident Fund
     Balances and Deposits of Local Body
     Employees
        The Provident Fund Deposits of Local Body
Employees and the investments therefrom were
taken over by Government in 1967. The Director


                            45
of Local Fund Audit is authorised to sanction
interest on the balance of Provident Fund Deposits
of Local Bodies. A sum of Rs.18 crore was
sanctioned by the Government during the period
from 01.04.2021 to 31.03.2022 and the entire
allotment has been utilized for sanction of interest
claims to the Local Bodies.

f) Treasurer of Charitable Endowments

        The   Director     of Local     Fund        Audit      also
functions     as    the     Treasurer         of    Charitable
Endowments         with     effect     from        01.04.1952.
Government         authorizes        acceptance          of     the
endowments         and     publishes     the       scheme        of
administration of the endowment.

        At present, there are 4 Central Endowments
worth       Rs.23.25        lakh       and         891        State
Endowments         worth     Rs.37.04         Crore           under
the custody and control of the Treasurer of
Charitable Endowments. During the period from


                             46
01.04.2021 to 31.03.2022, out of the interest
proceeds of endowments, a sum of Rs.65.79
lakh has been distributed to 656 Endowment
institutions towards the award of scholarships,
prizes and medals.

Contributory Pension Scheme / Audit by the
Department of Local Fund Audit
     50.    As   per   G.O.(Ms.)   No.260,   Finance
(Pension Grievances Cell) Department,            Dated
15.10.2015, the Director of Local Fund Audit
audits the accounts relating to the Contributory
Pension Scheme (CPS) maintained by the Local
Bodies so as to ensure the correctness of the
subscription of the employees and contribution of
the Local Body. Contributory Pension Scheme
accounts for 381 Panchayat Unions have been
audited    for   the   year    2019-2020   and    342
Panchayat Unions have been audited for the
year 2020-2021 as on 31.03.2022. In respect
of other Local Bodies such as 21 Corporations,


                          47
115 Municipalities and 528 Town Panchayats,
Local Fund Audit Department have been verifying
the   correctness       of   the   Contributory   Pension
Scheme accounts as and when data are uploaded
by these Local Bodies.

Status of Audit Progress

      51. Audit for the year 2020–2021 in respect
of all Panchayat Unions, District Panchayats,
Corporations, Municipalities, Town Panchayats,
Universities and other institutions have been
completed.
      Audit for the year 2020-2021 in respect of
22%      of   Village   Panchayats     have   also   been
completed.

Audit Fees

      52. This department has been charging
audit cost as audit fee out of total expenditure as
below:



                              48
      University                          100%
      Municipal Corporations and          50%
      Municipalities
      Agricultural     (Marketing)        2%
      Committees

     ❖ As against the demand of Rs.2007.78

       lakh, a sum of Rs.1094.39 lakh was

       remitted as audit fees by the above-

       mentioned      institutions   during    financial

       year 2021-2022.

Recovery of excess payment pointed out in
audit

     53.   The     amount     recovered   on    account
of settlement of audit objections relating to
Town Panchayats, Municipalities, Corporations,
Universities and other miscellaneous institutions
from April 2021 to March 2022 can be seen at
Annexure-I(c).




                         49
New Initiatives:

       54.(i) A Training Centre exclusively for the
Local Fund Audit Department headed by a Deputy
Director has been established. Foundation training
is imparted to the directly recruited Assistant
Inspectors      as    well     as    Assistant    Inspectors
promoted through recruitment by transfer in
order to enhance quality of audit. Refresher
Training has been given to all the auditors.

        (ii)        Audit     Information        Management
System in the Local Fund Audit Department has
been implemented. Four milestones (Design and
Development          of     application   Software,    User
Acceptance Testing, Sign off and Roll Out) have
been completed and continuous training has been
imparted       to    the      auditors.   Feedback      and
Suggestions collected from the Auditors during
the training is used by the developers to improve
the Application.



                                50
       CO-OPERATIVE AUDIT DEPARTMENT

        55. The Department of Co-operative Audit
is     functioning     as    a     separate        department
with     effect     from    17.6.1981         as    per    the
recommendations of the Santhanam Committee
and     the   Administrative       Reforms     Commission.
As per Section 80 of Tamil Nadu Co-operative
Societies Act, 1983, the main function of the
Co-operative Audit Department is to conduct
statutory     audit    of   all    Co-operative      Societies
functioning under the administrative control of
14     Functional     Registrars,    except    Multi      State
Co-operatives and Milk Co-operatives.

        56. The list of Co-operative Societies under
the control of the Functional Registrars coming
under the audit purview of the Co-operative Audit
Department is at Annexure-II(a).




                              51
Scope of Audit

       57. The main objective of the Co-operative
Audit is to audit the accounts of the societies and
to ensure that the financial statements have been
drawn properly and that they reflect a true and
fair   picture   of    the    financial     position   of     the
societies. In addition, this department assures the
members that the societies are functioning in
accordance with Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies
Act 1983, Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies Rules
1988 and bylaws and other directions of the
Government.         It also ensures that the grants,
subsidies     and     the    assistance      given     by     the
Government are utilized properly and the benefit
is derived by the members and the community as
a whole.

Concurrent Audit of Urban Banks and District
Central Co-operative Banks
        58.      The        statutory       audit      of      all
Central       Co-operative          Banks      and          Urban


                               52
Co-operative Banks are entrusted to Chartered
Accountants. The auditors of the Co-operative
Audit Department are entrusted with the task of
concurrent audit of these Banks.

Statutory Audit and Audit Fees

      59.   The    statutory   audit   of   primary
co-operative societies has to be completed within
a period of 45 days. Audit fee is collected for the
period of audit from the respective societies and
remitted into the Government Account.

      Under Fundamental Rule 127, the statutory
audit of societies having voluminous transactions
is conducted by deploying full time auditors for
which more than 45 man-days are allowed, and
as per G.O.(Ms.) No.27, Finance (Co-operative
Audit) Department, Dated 12.02.2020. 35 percent
of the salary cost is recovered from the respective
societies as Fundamental Rule cost of audit.



                        53
Status of Audit Progress

      60. Since the accounts of the societies
are pertaining to the period from 1st April to
31st March (Financial year) audit is being taken
after the completion of financial year. Audit of
accounts for the year 2020-2021, have been
completed for 8,653 out of 13,564 societies during
2021-2022. The audit of the remaining societies
will be completed shortly. Ongoing enquiry under
Section 81 of TNCS Act, 1983, investigation by
the Commercial Crime Investigation Wing, court
cases, non-production of books and accounts are
some of the reasons for non-completion of audit
of certain societies upto the year 2019-2020.
Efforts are being taken to complete the audit work
of   such   societies   with   the   coordination   of
concerned administrative authorities.




                          54
Special Reports

         61.       When           serious         defects          like
misappropriation, fraud, violations of TNCS act,
rules, stock deficit, are found out during the
course    of   audit,       they       are      brought       to    the
notice of the Functional Registrars concerned
through Special Reports for initiating necessary
follow-up      actions.       As        per      G.O.         No.267,
Finance     (CA)    Department,              Dated      06.08.2018
the   annual       report     of       action    taken        by    the
Functional     Registrars         has     been       submitted       to
the   Government            for    the        year     2017-2018.
Action    taken      report        details       for        the    year
2018-2019      onwards        are       yet     to     be    received
from the Functional Registrars.


      The special report details for the past 5
years are given below:-




                                  55
                No. of Special       Amount
 Audit year
                  Reports        (Rs. in Crores)
 2017-2018            569             59.58
 2018-2019            609             65.08
 2019-2020            544             47.95
 2020-2021            506             94.63
 2021-2022            350             45.02


Training and Development
        62. To improve the quality of audit skills
among the auditors, the department is conducting
various types of short-term training programmes
and also conducting 2 day refresher classes every
year.

Audit Information           Management    System
(AIMS)
        63. Audit Information Management System
(AIMS) is an Internet based application by which
audit related information like audit plan approval,
diary submission, audit progress, issue of audit


                         56
certificates are monitored. Uploading of financial
statements, Audit fees and Fundamental Rule cost
collection details and special report details for
serious irregularities are uploaded in the AIMS
software.

64. New Initiatives
  ➢ Creation of database relating to the financial
     position of cooperative institutions.

  ➢ Framing of guidelines to reduce the backlog
     in audit especially in respect of Books Not
     Available/Books Not Written/ Books with
     Court, Police, and Enquiry Officer.

  ➢ Defect      Compliance          mechanism         and
     introduction     of        Joint   sitting       with
     administrative    departments        at      District,
     Regional and State level to monitor the
     settlement of audit objections.




                           57
➢ Fixing of norms to the audit personnel for
  different types of cooperative    Institutions
  and issue of audit certificates on the basis
  of turnover.

➢ Visit to other states to study the best
  practices      in   cooperative   audit   and
  implementation of such practices.

➢ Revision of Audit Manual.




                      58
 STATE GOVERNMENT AUDIT DEPARTMENT

      65. Originally a State Trading Schemes
Audit Department was constituted in the year
1969. This Department was reorganized as per
G.O.(Ms.)     No.598,      Finance         (Local     Fund)
Department, Dated 03.08.1992, realigning the
functions   of   the    existing    Local    Fund      Audit
department and State Trading Schemes Audit
department, providing greater scope for internal
audit in Government departments as the Chief
Internal Auditor and Chief Auditor of Statutory
Boards.      Subsequently,         the      duties      and
responsibilities of the department were extended
to    more       statutory         and      non-statutory
boards/Institutions,     Government          departments
and Government aided Institutions. The “Internal
Audit and Statutory Boards          Audit Department”
has been renamed as “State Government Audit
Department”      vide   G.O.(Ms.)        No.264,     Finance
(Local Fund) Department, Dated 16.08.2019.


                           59
66. Scope of Audit

  •   Systemic examination of all receipts and
      expenditure of the auditable institutions.

  •   Ensure the financial transactions adhere to
      standards of propriety and the relevant
      rules and regulations of the Government
      are scrupulously followed by institutions.

  •   Examining the Pensionary benefits, General
      Provident Fund and Special Provident Fund
      of the employees of the Boards.

  •   Responsible for follow up of the most
      serious audit observations relating to the
      Boards/Institutions and their final resolution
      in the Public Undertaking Committee.

Auditable Institutions

      67. The list of Boards and Institutions under
the purview of the State Government Audit
Department can be seen at Annexure-III(a).
                         60
      68. The list of important institutions and
schemes      audited   by    this   department       is    at
Annexure-III(b).

       The     audit   of    the    above    boards        is
 conducted annually on concurrent basis. The
 audit reports of these institutions are issued
 within the stipulated time frame and serious
 irregularities are brought to the notice of the
 Government and Public Undertakings Committee
 of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.

       The    Status of Audit of the          Auditable
 Institutions as on 31.03.2022 is at Annexure-
 III(c).

Audit Certificate

       69.     This    department        certifies        the
entitlement to grants of the aided institutions
concerned,     besides      certifying   Pension          and
Provident Fund closure proposals of employees of
all the auditee Boards.

                            61
Other Functions

     70.    At    present,    in   19   Government
departments, the Internal Audit functions are
being supervised by this department and Audit
reports issued.

       1.   Medical Education Department
       2.   Medical and Rural Health Services
            Department
       3.   Public Health and Preventive Medicine
            Department
       4.   Agriculture Department
       5.   Agricultural Engineering Department
       6.   Geology and Mining Department
       7.   Revenue Administration Department
       8.   Transport Department
       9.   Collegiate Education Department
       10. Technical Education Department
       11. Prisons and Correctional Services
           Department
       12. Police Department

                         62
         13. Social Welfare and Women
             Empowerment Department
         14. Rehabilitation Department
         15. Adi-Dravidar and Tribal Welfare
             Department
         16. Forest Department
         17. Stationery and Printing Department
         18. Backward Classes and Minorities
             Welfare Department
         19. Fire and Rescue Services Department

Follow up action taken on Audit Reports
        71. The gist of audit paragraphs, which are
serious in nature, are being brought to the notice
of Heads of departments and the Secretaries to
Government concerned for corrective action.

Audit Fees
        72. The demand for audit fees is raised on
the basis of the actual cost of audit or average
cost. A sum of Rs.74.65 lakhs has been collected
so far as audit fees during 2021-2022 financial
year.
                         63
Recovery of Excess payment pointed out in
Audit
       73.      Revenue   loss   to   the   tune   of
Rs.857.37 lakh pointed out in audit reports of
various    auditable   institutions   was   recovered
and remitted to government account, by settling
6354 paras in joint sittings.

Capacity Building:
       74. To improve the quality of the skills of
audit among the auditors, this department is
conducting 3 day regular training periodically to
the auditors about various types of auditable
institutions.

75. e-Governance Initiatives
      1.     An exclusive web portal for this
             department is under development.

      2.     To take up the digitalization of the
             department’s functioning a “Cell for
             Data Management and Analytics” will
             be established.




                          64
        DEPARTMENT OF AUDIT FOR MILK
               CO-OPERATIVES

        76.     The   Directorate     of    Audit        for    Milk
Co-operatives         was   created        as   a        separate
department in 1987 to conduct statutory audit
exclusively for Milk Co-operatives in the State.
        77. Earlier this department was functioning
under     the    administrative       control       of     Animal
Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries Department.
This department has been brought under the
overall control of the Finance Department as a
separate department vide G.O.No.370, Finance
(Co-operative         Audit)        Department,                Dated
22.11.2019, with sanctioned cadre strength of
333 posts.

Structure of Milk Co-operatives

        78. Milk Co-operatives comprise of a 3-tier
structure with the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk
Producers’ Federation Limited (TCMPF) at apex
level, 25 District Co-operative Milk Producers’

                               65
Unions (DCMPUS) at District level, 10335 Milk
Producers Co-operative Societies (MPCS) and 47
Milk Consumer Co-operative Societies at the
Primary level.




Scope of Audit

      79. The main objective of this department is
to audit the accounts of the milk societies and to
ensure that the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
Account have been drawn properly so that they
represent a true and fair picture of the state of
affairs of the societies.


                            66
      In addition, the audit department enables
accountability to the members of the societies by
auditing whether the societies are functioning in
accordance with the relevant Act, Rules and
procedures    and    also    whether   the   assistance
received from Government is utilized for the
purpose for which it was sanctioned.

Status of Audit Progress

Tamil Nadu       Cooperative       Milk      Producers
Federation

      80. Final Audit of Tamil Nadu Cooperative
Milk Producers Federation for 2020-2021 was
completed in all the 10 units of federation & Audit
Certificates issued.

District Cooperative Milk Producers Unions
      81.    Audit     for   2018-2019,      has   been
completed in the newly created unions of Tiruppur
& Namakkal and Audit certificates issued.




                             67
       Audit for 2019-2020, has been completed
in the 5 newly created unions of Tiruppur,
Namakkal, Theni, Dharmapuri and Tiruvannamalai
and   Audit     certificates        issued   in    Theni   and
Dharmapuri Unions. Finalization of Audit report is
in progress in the remaining 3 Unions.

      Audit for 2020-2021 has been completed in
21 District Cooperative Milk Producers Unions and
Audit Certificates issued in 20 Unions. Finalization
of Audit report is in progress for Theni Union.
Audit has not commenced in the remaining
4 Unions i.e., Tiruppur, Namakkal, Dharmapuri
and Tiruvannamalai as books of accounts have
not been furnished in complete shape.

Primary         Milk     Producers                Cooperative
Societies

      82. For the audit year 2020-2021, out of
10,382   Milk    Producers          Cooperative      Societies,
audit has been completed for 8881 societies and
Audit Certificates issued for 4255 societies. Issue
                               68
of   Audit   Certificates    is    in    progress     for   the
remaining societies.

      The Audit progress for the past 3 years is at
Annexure-IV(a).

Audit Fees and Fundamental Rule Costs
      83.     During        2021-2022        a      sum       of
Rs.107.08 lakhs towards Concurrent audit fees
and Rs.178.35 lakhs towards Fundamental Rule
cost totalling Rs.285.43 lakhs was collected from
the milk cooperative societies and remitted into
Government account.

Special Reports

      84. As and when serious defects are noticed
during   audit,    they      are        forwarded     to    the
Commissioner      for   Milk      Production     and       Dairy
Development       and       the         Deputy      Registrars
(Dairying) by means of special reports which
contain the narrative details of the serious defects
and the financial involvement for appropriate

                             69
action at their end. The progress of special
reports for the past 3 years:

Tamil Nadu          Cooperative   Milk    Producers
Federation
      For the year 2020-2021, 9 special reports to
the   tune     of   Rs.8,828.25   Lakhs    is   under
preparation.

District Cooperative Milk Producers Unions

                         No. of      Amount
      Audit year        Special      (Rupees
                        Reports     in Lakhs)
      2017-2018           10            618.20
      2018-2019            20            8300.68
      2019-2020            20        10028.12
        Total              50       18947.00


      For the year 2020-2021, 20 special reports
to the tune of Rs.7,740.55 Lakhs are under
preparation.




                          70
Primary     Milk   Producers                  Cooperative
Societies (As on 31.3.2022)


                        No. of               Amount
    Audit Year         Special           (Rupees in
                       Reports             Lakhs)
    2017-2018               280               898.60
    2018-2019               361               674.10
    2019-2020               698               292.82
    2020-2021               73                 3.17
       Total            1412                 1868.69


Training and Development

      85.      Every   year      refresher    courses are
conducted for the Auditors of the department with
financial      assistance        sanctioned      by    the
Government to improve their audit skills and
proficiency.




                            71
New Initiatives

       86. In order to revamp the functioning of
this department, initiatives to restructure the
existing cadre strength, framing of special rules
for the restructured cadre, revision of audit fees
and preparation of an Audit Manual have been
taken up by this department.




                        72
  HINDU RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS AUDIT
             DEPARTMENT
        87. As per G.O.(Ms.) No. 181, Tourism,
Culture and Religious Endowments Department,
Dated 25.11.2021, the audit wing functioning
under     the   control   of    Hindu   Religious   and
Charitable      Endowments        Department        was
separated and brought under the administrative
control of the Finance department as the HINDU
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS AUDIT DEPARTMENT.

        The following accounts of Hindu Religious
Institutions are being audited by this department
        1. General Accounts of the Religious
           Institutions  whose      annual income
           exceeds more than Rs.1,000 and above
        2. Annadhanam
        3. Oru Kala Poojai
        4. Educational Institutions
        5. Thiruppani
        6. Gramappura Thiruppani
        7. Other miscellaneous accounts




                           73
88. EXTENT AND SCOPE OF AUDIT

  •   The audit checks whether there is any
      contravention of the provisions of the Hindu
      Religious and Charitable Endowments Act of
      1959    and   the   Rules     prescribed     under
      Section 87(2) and 116 (2) (xiv) - the
      Manner of Audit of Account Rules.

  •   The following checks are undertaken in the
      audit

       (i) Physical verification of investments,
           bonds and tickets printed.
       (ii) Timely realisation of income
      (iii) Steps are taken to recover overdue
            amounts
      (iv) Whether all         collections   are    duly
           accounted
      (v) Whether the expenditure is                duly
          supported by proper vouchers
      (vi) Prima facie extravagant expenditure




                          74
          89. The Status of audit as on 31.03.2022 is
at Annexure-V(a).

AUDIT FEES
          90. As per Sub Section 2 of Section 92 of
Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act,
1959 and the rules framed thereunder, Audit Fees
are being calculated and collected on the basis of
the       following   percentage   on   the   Annual
Assessable Income of the Religious Institutions in
each fasli year to compensate the cost of audit.

             Assessable Income of       Percentage
  Sl.
                  the Religious           of audit
  No.
                   Institution               fee
      1     Up to Rs.5000               Nil
      2     Rs.5001-5,00,000            1.5 percent
      3     Over Rs.5,00,001            4 percent
The amount collected towards Audit Fees as
mentioned above, are being collected by the
administrative wing of the H.R.& C.E Department
and remitted into Government Account.



                           75
 TREASURIES AND ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT

91. INTRODUCTION
        Treasuries are one of the oldest operational
units    of    the    Government.           Originally,        they
functioned     as     part   of      the   Collectorates.       In
01.04.1962, they were reorganized into a
separate department and brought under the
administrative control of the Finance Department.

        The Treasuries and Accounts Department
headed by the Commissioner of Treasuries and
Accounts is functioning under the administrative
control of the Finance Department. There are 6
Regional      Joint   Director       Offices,   6        Pay   and
Accounts Offices, 3 Sub Pay and Accounts Offices,
37 District Treasuries, 1 Pension Pay office,
1 Assistant Superintendent of Stamps Office and
243 Sub Treasuries. The Department discharges
the various Treasury functions of the State and
also    provides      skilled     manpower          to    various



                                76
Departments, Boards, and Corporations to carry
out the Finance related functions.

92. MAIN FUNCTIONS:
   1) Handling of all receipts and payments of the
      Government
   2) Disbursement of salaries to more than
      9.3 lakh employees
   3) Disbursement    of    pension   for   7.2   lakh
      Pensioners
   4) Disbursement of payments to all schemes,
      capital works etc.
   5) Rendering of compiled monthly accounts to
      the Accountant General
   6) Sale of various Judicial and Non-Judicial
      stamps to Vendors
   7) Implementation of New Health Insurance
      Schemes to employees and pensioners.
   8) Maintenance of various Deposit Accounts for
      Local Funds and Personal Deposits of
      Drawing and Disbursing Officers, Allotment
      of Funds to Head of Departments for
      advances e.g., Vehicle, Computer etc.,


                           77
93. INTEGRATED FINANCIAL AND HUMAN
    RESOURCES  MANAGEMENT    SYSTEM
    (IFHRMS)
 •   The Government had proposed to implement
     Integrated Financial and Human Resource
     Management        System     (IFHRMS)        for    the
     effective     and        efficient    functioning
     of     Government             by          integrating
     management         of     both     Financial       and
     Human       Resources.        To     provide       total
     solution    for   IF&HRMS,         M/s.     Accenture
     Solutions Pvt Ltd, Chennai was appointed
     with the responsibility of offering consulting
     services    and     to    identify    the       System
     Integrator.

 •   M/s Wipro Ltd was selected as the System
     Integrator for this project.

 •   Necessary infrastructure has been created
     and    IFHRMS        application          has      been
     established at all the locations.


                          78
•   IFHRMS was initially implemented at Karur
    District       during          January-2020            and
    subsequently it has been extended to all
    districts and Pay and Accounts Offices in a
    phased       manner.     All      claims    of     Salary,
    Non-Salary, Pension and Work bills are being
    processed       through        IFHRMS           only   and
    e-payment       made         to    the     beneficiaries
    through e-Kuber portal of RBI.

•   The        Pension      payments           have        been
    implemented in all District Treasuries and at
    Pension Pay Office (PPO), Chennai and the
    Payments made to the beneficiaries through
    IFHRMS.

•   e-challan module was launched to enable
    the    General          public      /      Government
    Departments, Boards & Corporations and
    Local Bodies, to remit the receipts of the
    Government       as      e-receipts        in     IFHRMS.


                            79
    The       remittances          can        be        made
    24x7           through          online           facilities
    (www.karuvoolam.tn.gov.in).               Four     Banks
    namely,    State      Bank     of    India,    Bank     of
    Baroda, Indian Overseas Bank and Indian
    Bank have been identified as Aggregator
    Banks.    The     e-challan         has   been      made
    operational with all the above four banks
    and the amount collected and remitted into
    Government Account in RBI.

•   Integration      of   major         Revenue      earning
    Departments viz., Commercial Taxes and
    Prohibition and Excise and e-Sarathy of the
    Transport Department has been completed.

•   Implementation of DSC (Digital Signature
    Certificate)      with        IFHRMS       has       been
    completed.




                             80
 •   Integration       of   e-Vahan     of    Transport
     Department and Registration Department
     will be completed shortly.

Further, the integration of the following
components and testing is in progress.

 •   Integration of TANGEDCO, and BSNL.

 •   e-SR updation by Departments

 •   TNHB sharing the rent recovery details for
     the Quarters-Under development by TNHB.

 •   Income Tax- Filling of periodical income tax
     returns     by    DDOs-     24Q,   24G    &   26Q
     Development completed, latest changes to
     be incorporated.

 •   Out    of        Treasury    transactions     with
     Accountant General.




                            81
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
(PFMS)

      94. Public Financial Management System is
an application which provides an end-to-end
solution    for   processing         payments,       tracking,
monitoring,       accounting,         reconciliation       and
reporting of all Government of India funding for
centrally sponsored schemes and state shared
schemes.      The       Treasuries          and    Accounts
Department is the Nodal Department for this
scheme.

      The Treasuries and Accounts Department is
taking     effective        steps    to     co-ordinate    the
implementation         of    the    PFMS,    based    on   the
guidance and instructions from the Government of
India and State Government of Tamil Nadu.

      Under this system, more than 185 Centrally
Sponsored Schemes related to 51 departments
have been registered. As per the instructions of


                               82
Government of India, 124 Single Nodal Agency
were created to implement PFMS.

NEW HEALTH INSURANCE SCHEME, 2021

        95. The New Health Insurance Scheme aims
to    provide      health      care   assistance   to   the
employees of Government Departments, Local
Bodies, Public Sector Undertakings, Statutory
boards and State Government Universities, willing
State Government Organizations /Institutions and
their   eligible    family     members.     This   Scheme
provides medical assistance up to Rs.5 lakh to
avail treatment and surgeries. The insurance
premium of Rs.300/- (Rs.295/- for insurance
subscription + Rs.5/- for Corpus fund subscription
for meeting higher expenses in respect of rare
illness and exceptional circumstances, extending
the total benefit upto Rs.20.00 lakh) is being
deducted      from       the    Government     employee’s
monthly salary. The Government have extended
the     New     Health      Insurance   Scheme     beyond

                                83
30.06.2021 for a further period of four years with
some     additional   features.     The    New     Health
Insurance      Scheme      2021      is   implemented
from     01-07-2021       through         United      India
Insurance Company Limited, a central Public
Sector Undertaking.

       96. Under the new scheme, the maximum
limit has been enhanced to Rs.10,00,000/-
(Rupees Ten lakh) for the following specified
diseases and treatments

    1)    Surgery,    Chemotherapy,         Radiotherapy
          and Immunotherapy for all Malignancies
          including     inpatient       procedures      for
          diagnosis

    2)    Liver, Kidney, Heart, Lungs and Bone
          Marrow Transplantation

    3)    Complex     Open      Heart     Surgeries    and
          Implants



                           84
    4)     Accident and Trauma cases involving
           Multiple Fractures

    5)     Heart Valve Replacements, Aneurysms
           and Angioplasties

    6)     Management of Burn Injuries

    7)     Organ Harvesting Expenses of Donor for
           transplantation surgeries

        COVID-19     treatment         has   been included
under    specified   illness    list    to   avail   cashless
medical assistance upto Rs.10.00 lakh.

        This   scheme      covers        the      dependent
children of the Government employee without
age limit to avail the eligible cashless medical
assistance.

        97. The coverage of medical assistance
under this scheme has been extended to accident
cases,    where      the   patient       avails      approved
treatment/undergone surgery in a non-network
hospital. Under this Scheme, 203 treatments
                           85
are covered to avail medical assistance i.e.,
116 treatment and surgeries and 87 medical care
procedures on Cashless basis through                1169
networked hospitals located in Tamil Nadu,
Puducherry, Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and
New   Delhi.    From       1.7.2016   to   30.06.2021,
2,48,716     beneficiaries    have    availed      medical
assistance   costing     Rs.1033.46     crore. Further,
under the New Health Insurance Scheme 2021,
51,767     beneficiaries     have     availed      medical
assistance     costing      Rs.215.14      Crore     from
01.07.2021 to 31.03.2022.

      In addition, for the treatment of COVID-19
under the New Health Insurance Scheme for
Employees, a corpus fund has been created with
a sum of Rs.5 crore. A sum of Rs.75 crore has
been sanctioned so far.




                             86
98. NEW HEALTH INSURANCE SCHEME, 2018
FOR PENSIONERS
      The New Health Insurance Scheme-2014
for   Pensioners    (including    spouse)   /   Family
Pensioners     is    being       implemented     from
1-7-2014. The Government have extended this
Scheme with some additional features for the
block of four years covering the period from
1-7-2018 to 30-6-2022. This Scheme is being
implemented through       United India      Insurance
Company Limited, a Public Sector Undertaking.
Under the new Scheme, the ceiling on medical
assistance has been enhanced from Rs.2 lakh
to Rs.4 lakh for availing approved treatments
and surgeries undertaken.

      Under the new scheme, this benefit has also
been extended to son / unmarried daughter
who is suffering from any disorder or disability of
mind or physical disability so as to render him/her
incapable of earning a livelihood.


                         87
     Under the new scheme, medical assistance
has been enhanced to the maximum limit of
Rs.7.50 lakh for the following diseases and
treatments such as

     1) Surgery, Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy
        and Immunotherapy for all Malignancies
        including  inpatient procedures    for
        diagnosis,
     2) Liver, Kidney, Heart, Lungs and Bone
        Marrow Transplantation,
     3) Complex Open           Heart        Surgeries   and
        Implants,
     4) Accident and Trauma cases involving
        Fractures,
     5) Heart Valve Replacements, Aneurysms
        and Angioplasties and
     6) Management of Burn Injuries.

     COVID-19       treatment         has   been    included
under   specified   illness    list    to   avail   cashless
medical assistance upto Rs.7.50 lakh



                          88
         The coverage of medical assistance under
this     new    scheme        has        been      extended       to
Emergency           Care     and        cases      following     an
accident, where the patient avails approved
treatment/ undergone surgery in a non-network
hospital. Under this Scheme, 114 treatments
and surgical procedures are covered on cashless
basis     through          1168        Network        hospitals
located        in         Tamil         Nadu,       Puducherry,
Thiruvananthapuram, New Delhi and Bengaluru.
The      annual       premium            payable         by     the
Government to the United India Insurance
Company             Limited        is       Rs.3,800/-          per
pensioner / family pensioner, per annum
for the block period of four years from
01-7-2018            to     30-6-2022.             The       annual
premium        initially    paid       by    the    Government
is     recovered     from     the       pensioner        /    family
pensioner at Rs.350/- per month by deduction in
monthly pension/family pension from the month
of July 2018.
                                  89
       During     the    four-year       period    i.e.,    from
1-7-2014 to 30-6-2018, a total of 2,01,285
beneficiaries have availed medical assistance to
the tune of Rs.578.01 crore. After extending this
Scheme from 1-7-2018 to 31-03-2022, a total of
2,23,004     beneficiaries        have     availed      medical
assistance to the tune of Rs.881.56 crore.
Further,    under       the   Pensioners       New         Health
Insurance Scheme 2018, 49,582 beneficiaries
have     availed     medical      assistance      costing      of
Rs.207.02          Crore      from        01.07.2021           to
31.03.2022.

       Further,      Government           have       accorded
permission      to      extend    this    Scheme        mutatis
mutandis to pensioners / family pensioners of
the Local Bodies, Statutory Boards, State Public
Sector     Undertaking,       Universities        and      willing
State Government Organisations / Institutions,
where pension/family pension is being paid from
their own funds and are capable of bearing the

                                 90
employer share of the premium without financial
liability befalling on the State Budget.

     In addition, for the treatment of COVID-19
under the New Health Insurance Scheme for
Pensioners, a corpus fund has been created with
a sum of Rs.2.5 Crores. A sum of Rs.37.5 crores
has been sanctioned so far.




                         91
           SMALL SAVINGS DEPARTMENT

     99.      Small   Savings     Schemes     are
implemented mainly in the Post Offices. The net
proceeds of small savings investments collected in
State had been released as long-term loan to that
State by the Central Government. Due to the high
cost of such loans, based on a request of the
State Government, Tamil Nadu has been excluded
from availing small savings loans with effect from
2016-2017.

Small Savings Schemes

     100. A number of Small Savings Schemes
are in existence to suit the requirement of
different sections of the society. The Government
of India announces the rate of interest for the
Small Savings Schemes periodically for each
quarter.

     The current rate of Interest to the schemes
as on 01.01.2022 is provided in the Department’s

                        92
website      www.tnsmallsavings.org               and     is
periodically updated.

Small Savings Collection

      101.   The    small    savings    collection       has
increased considerably during the year 2021-2022
when compared with previous year.

Agency System
      102.     At       present    13,375            agents
(MPKBY-10,429       and   SAS-2946)         are   available
in Tamil Nadu to mobilize small savings collection.
The agents strength is reduced when compared to
previous year due to the pandemic.

Awards
      103.   The     Government        of    India      pays
commission to agents for the deposits made
through them. The Government of Tamil Nadu, in
order to motivate Small Savings Agents presents
every year awards and shields for Best Agents
at the Block, District and State Levels for the
                            93
Mahila Pradhan Ksetriya Bachat Yojana (MPKBY)
agents and at the District and State levels for
Standardised Agency System (SAS) agents.

     104. The Small Savings Department plays a
vital role in encouraging the collection under
Small Savings Schemes and to attend to the
grievances of investors and agents through online
(www.tnsmallsavings.org) all over Tamil Nadu.
During World Thrift Day celebrations every year,
Essay, Oratorical, Dance and Drama competitions
are being conducted among the students awards
given.

Publicity

     105. In order to create awareness among
the public, Small Savings Department participates
in Government Exhibitions by erecting Small
Savings pavilion, distributing pamphlets in Trade
Fair at Chennai and in Districts and through
conduct of dramas at Block level every year.


                       94
       TAMIL NADU INFRASTRUCTURE
       DEVELOPMENT BOARD (TNIDB)

     106.     The    Tamil      Nadu         Infrastructure
Development Act, 2012 enacted to provide an
enabling    and     facilitative   environment          for
financing, design, construction, maintenance and
operation   of    infrastructure   projects        through
private sector participation, and an institutional
framework for identification, prioritization and
implementation of such projects and related
matters.    The     Tamil       Nadu         Infrastructure
Development       Rules,    2012       lay     down    the
procedures for determination of State support
and management of funds created under the
Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Act and
the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board
Regulations, 2013 lay down the manner in which
the Board shall operate and provide for the form
and manner of preparation and approval of
project documents.


                           95
        107.     The     Tamil       Nadu       Infrastructure
Development Board set up under the Tamil Nadu
Infrastructure Development Act, 2012 acts as the
nodal agency for infrastructure development in
the     State.    The     Board       largely      coordinates
infrastructure      development         activities     in   the
State    and     facilitates   projects     undertaken       by
Government institutions through the public sector
mode       as    well     as     through        Public-Private
Partnership (PPP) mode.

        108. The Chairperson of the Board is the
Hon’ble     Chief    Minister       (Ex-officio)     and    Vice
Chairperson of the Board is the Hon’ble Minister
for Finance (Ex-officio). The Board also has
an      Executive       Committee        chaired      by    the
Chief Secretary and a Sub-Committee chaired by
Finance Secretary.

        109. Under the TNID Act, 2012, Tamil Nadu
Infrastructure Development Fund (TNIDF) is set


                               96
up for providing financial support to facilitate the
design, development, functioning, administration,
management of projects. The Project Preparation
Fund is created to provide financial support for
conducting studies, hiring the services of experts
and consultants,        preparing feasibility studies,
detailed     project       studies,    capacity     building,
research and related purposes.
      110.     To      encourage      and   facilitate    the
participation of private sector in infrastructure
development in the State, the Government has
decided to further strengthen the Board by hiring
experts    from      the     open     market,     simplifying
procedures, optimizing delegation of powers and
introducing    appropriate          amendments       in   the
relevant statutory provisions.

      111.     The      Board       which   was     hitherto
functioning from the Secretariat itself has now
been accommodated in a separate office space
with adequate manpower and experts. Further,

                              97
the Board will also extend assistance to major
departments with high potential for PPP projects
by deploying experts from TNIDB to work with the
departments     closely.    These     experts         would
handhold      the   departments           in      identifying
appropriate projects, hire consultancies, assist in
documentation, and coordinate with TNIDB to
expedite sanctions.

        112. Further, while the Government has
taken steps to strengthen the TNIDB on the one
hand    and   mobilizing   funds    for        infrastructure
through the TNIFMC on the other, a synergy of
effort would be ensured between these two
organizations whereby, TNIDB would encourage
and develop projects, TNIFMC would make effort
to provide innovative finance to these projects
while    ensuring   competitive     returns         to   the
investors.




                           98
      113.   Government         of   Tamil    Nadu   has
accepted the Technical Assistance from the UK
Government       for    conducting     a     Study   on
Benchmarking and Prioritization of Infrastructure
projects on PPP mode in Tamil Nadu. Major scope
of the study will be to design a framework for
project selection – in line with Government of
Tamil Nadu’s overall development agenda and
creation of an inventory of iconic projects which
can be taken up for implementation under the PPP
mode. The project will be funded by the FCDO
Research and Evidence Directorate, and aims to
enable inclusive economic growth in Tamil Nadu.
British Deputy High Commission has appointed
Consultants to carry out the study and the project
would be coordinated by TNIDB.

      114. The Government has signed the loan
agreement with the World Bank along with Asian
Infrastructure         Investment           Bank     for
implementation     of    Chennai     City    Partnership

                           99
phase-1- Sustainable Urban Services Program as
a unique model of development co-operation with
the    World    Bank     to     ensure     the     continued
sustainable growth of metropolitan Chennai. This
Program is being developed as a multi-sector
Program for Results operation (PforR). In the first
phase, the expected outlay is $430 million,
comprising funding assistance of $150 million
from   World     Bank,      $150    million      from    Asian
Infrastructure Investment Bank and Government
of Tamil Nadu counterpart funding of about $ 130
million.       The     Tamil        Nadu      Infrastructure
Development       Board       serves     as    the      Project
Monitoring     Unit   for     overall   coordination       and
monitoring of the project.

       115. Initial discussions are being held with
officials of Government of Tamil Nadu and World
Bank for implementation of the Second Phase of
Chennai City Partnership which would focus on
Urban Mobility and Spatial Development (UMSD).

                              100
TAMIL  NADU   INFRASTRUCTURE   FUND
MANAGEMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
        116.     Tamil      Nadu        Infrastructure         Fund
Management Corporation Ltd. (TNIFMC) is an
Asset Management Company owned 49% by
Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board
(TNIDB)        and    51%    by        financial        institutions.
Currently manages three funds viz; Tamil Nadu
Infrastructure Fund (TNIF), Tamil Nadu Shelter
Fund (TNSF) and Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector
Seed     Fund        (TNESSF).         TNIFMC      is      currently
evaluating projects in the affordable housing
segment        including     investment            in     industrial
housing    and       working      women        hostels       across
Tamil    Nadu        with   an     investment           opportunity
of Rs.375 crores.

Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector                         Seed       Fund
(TNESSF)
        117. The Fund has been established to
invest    in    startups     and       other    companies          in
emerging sectors. The TNESSF has obtained the

                                 101
SEBI approval for raising capital with a targeted
corpus    of   Rs.500      crores.    The     Tamil    Nadu
Industrial Development Corporation Limited and
TIDEL Park Limited have made commitments for
Rs.30    crores   and      Rs.20     crores   respectively.
Further, to boost the Start-up eco-system, in the
presentation of the Budget Estimates for the year
2022-2023, the Hon’ble Minister for Finance and
Human      Resources         Management        made      an
announcement        that     the     Government        would
contribute Rs.50 crore to the TNESSF for making
equity investments in Tamil Nadu based startups.
These     initiatives   of     the     government        will
immensely benefit the skilled manpower, boost
innovation and R&D thereby creating a conducive
environment       for   the    advancement        of     the
emerging sectors.

               Dr. PALANIVEL THIAGA RAJAN
                  Minister for Finance and
               Human Resources Management



                             102
ANNEXURES




    103
104
                     ANNEXURE-I
         LOCAL FUND AUDIT DEPARTMENT
I(a) – List of Institutions under the purview of Local
Fund Audit Department

   Sl.
            Name of the Institutions          Total No.
   No.
    1    Municipal Corporations                  21
    2    Municipalities                         115
    3    Town Panchayats                        528
    4    District Panchayats                     31
    5    Panchayat Unions                       388
    6    Universities                            23
    7    Local Library Authorities               32
         District     Agricultural   Market
    8                                            25
         Committees
         Tamil Nadu Agricultural Marketing
    9                                             1
         Board
    10   Agricultural engineering wings           3
    11   Koyambedu Market committee               1
    12   Sathangadu Market Committee              1
    13   Local Planning Authorities              29
         Village Panchayats (every year on
    14   rotation basis 22% out of 12524       2831
         village Panchayats)
    15   Miscellaneous Institutions             12
    16   National Social Welfare Scheme         32
                         Total                4073




                           105
I(b) – List of Corporations and Municipalities taken up
for Concurrent Audit
  SL.NO.   CORPORATIONS         MUNICIPALITIES
    1.         CHENNAI             PUDUKOTTAI

    2.           SALEM                PALANI

    3.       COIMBATORE              POLLACHI
    4.     TIRUCHIRAPPALLI      UDHAGAMANDALAM
    5.         MADURAI          MARAIMALAI NAGAR

    6.        TIRUNELVELI          PALLAVARAM

    7.       THOOTHUKUDI         TIRUVANNAMALAI

    8.         VELLORE             KODAIKANAL

    9.         TIRUPPUR            RAJAPALAYAM

    10.         ERODE               KOVILPATTI

    11.       THANJAVUR

    12.        DINDIGUL
    13.          AVADI

    14.       NAGERCOIL

    15.     KANCHEEPURAM

    16.       CUDDALORE

    17.         KARUR

    18.      KUMBAKONAM

    19.       TAMBARAM


                          106
      I(c) - Amount Recovered in Audit Objections
            (From April 2021 to March 2022)




107
                       ANNEXURE-II
         CO-OPERATIVE AUDIT DEPARTMENT
II(a) -     List of Co-operative Societies under the
control of Functional Registrars coming under the audit
purview of the Co-operative Audit Department

                                               Total No. of
 Sl.                                           Societies for
               Functional Registrars
 No.                                             the year
                                               2020 - 2021
   i     Registrar of Co-operative Societies       8453
   ii    Director of Handlooms and Textiles        1357
         Commissioner of Industries and
  iii                                              303
         Commerce
         Chief Executive Officer, Tamil Nadu
  iv                                               208
         Khadi and Village Industries Board
         Chief Executive Officer, Palm
   v                                               702
         Products Development Board
         Registrar of Co-operative Societies
  vi                                               720
         (Housing)
  vii    Director of Fisheries                     1381
         Commissioner of Animal Husbandry
  viii                                             110
         and Veterinary Services
  ix     Commissioner of Sugar                      17
   x     Director of Agriculture (Oil Seeds)        1
         Director of Agro Engineering and
  xi                                               113
         Service Cooperative Societies
  xii    Director of Sericulture                    25
         Director of Social Welfare &
  xiii                                             125
         Nutritious Meal Programme
         Director of Rural Development and
  xiv                                               49
         Panchayat Raj
         TOTAL                                    13564


                               108
                        ANNEXURE-III

      STATE GOVERNMENT AUDIT DEPARTMENT

III(a) – List of Boards and Institutions under the
purview of the State Government Audit Department

                                                         No. of.
Sl.
              Name of the Institution                    centre/
No
                                                       Institutions
1.    Statutory Boards                                       6
2.    Judiciary Control Institutions                         6
      Agriculture Department (All districts Main
3.    depot audit, Sub depot audit, Seed farms            1120
      etc…)
      Government Institutions (Tamil Nadu
4.    Film Division, Tamil Nadu Textbook and              1141
      Educational Services Corporation etc.,)
      Government aided Institutions (World
      Tamil    research     institution,     Periyar
5.                                                         643
      Science and technology institutions,
      etc…)
6.    SC/ST Post Matric Scholarship Audit                 2770
      Weights    and     Measures       Institutions
7.    (Stamping     inspector      and     assistant       340
      Inspector offices in all districts etc…)
      Government      aided     Polytechnic      and
8.                                                         37
      Engineering colleges
      Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. MGR Nutritious
9.    Noon Meal Scheme (School going and                  97198
      non-school going)

                                             Total       103261




                                 109
III(b) – List of institutions / schemes audited by
State Government Audit Department
     1.   Tamil Nadu Housing Board
     2.   Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board
     3.   Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority
     4.   Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services
          Corporation
     5. Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board
     6. Chief Minister’s Uzhavar Pathukappu Thittam (Social
          Security Scheme)
     7. Folk Artist Welfare Board
     8. Tamil Nadu Sports Development Authority
     9. Tamil Nadu Manual Labourers Welfare Board
     10. 15 Non-Formal labourers’ Welfare Boards
     11. SC/ST Post Matric Scholarship Scheme
     12. Anna Administrative Staff College
     13. District Child Protection Units
     14. Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission
     15. Teachers Recruitment Board
     16. National Service Scheme in Deemed Universities
     17. Tamil Nadu Government Health Fund Schemes
     18. Family Security Fund
     19. Hon’ble Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund
     20. Government Aided Polytechnics and Engineering
          Colleges
     21. Audit of pay fixation of Government employees in all
          departments (Audit in respect of Commercial Tax
          Department, Registration Department, Transport
          Department has been completed.
     22. Audit of the expenditure of Parliament and Legislative
          Assembly elections.




                           110
III(c) – Status of Audit (As on 31.03.2022)

                                         Current
                                                             Amount
       Name of the          Year of       audit
Sl.                                                 No. of   involved
        Auditable         completion      years
No.                                                 Paras     (Rs. in
       Institutions         of audit      (is in
                                                              Lakhs)
                                        progress)

 1.   Tamil Nadu
      Housing Board        2020-2021    2021-2022    467     264932.12
      (TNHB)
 2.   Tamil Nadu
      Urban Habitat
      Development         2020-2021*    2021-2022    578     76074.84
      Board
      (TNUHDB)
 3.   Chennai
      Metropolitan
      Development          2020-2021    2021-2022    546     86401.20
      Authority
      (CMDA)
 4.   Tamil Nadu
      Textbook and         2018-2019
      Educational          2019-2020    2020-2021   1020     35236.39
      Services
      Corporation
 5.   Tamil Nadu          2017-2018
      Khadi & Village     2018-2019
      Industries                            -       1787     27427.36
                          2019-2020**
      Board
                          2020-2021
 6.   Tamil Nadu
                           2020-2021        -       1640     4107.85
      Wakf Board
 7.   Administrative                    2018-2019
      General (AG)         2017-2018        to       938      424.76
                                        2020-2021
 8.   Official Trustee                  2019-2020
      (OT)                 2018-2019        to      1702     6243.85
                                        2020-2021
 9.   Official Assignee                 2019-2020
      (OA)                 2018-2019                1319     3220.67
                                        2020-2021


                                  111
                                           Current
                                                                     Amount
        Name of the         Year of         audit
Sl.                                                         No. of   involved
         Auditable        completion        years
No.                                                         Paras     (Rs. in
        Institutions        of audit        (is in
                                                                      Lakhs)
                                          progress)

 10.   Official                           2016-2017
       Liquidator (OL)    2015-2016           to            2171     133528.89
                             (II)
                                          2020-2021
 11.   Weights and
       Measures           2020-2021       2021-2022         14368    29815.75
       Institutions
 12.   Government
                          2020-2021       2021-2022         76564    157353.29
       Institutions
 13.   Government
       aided              2020-2021       2021-2022         19089    307659.66
       Institutions
 14.   Government
       aided
       Polytechnic and    2019-2020       2020-2021         5865     12721.93
       Engineering
       colleges
 15.   Puratchi
       Thalaivar Dr.      2017-2018
       MGR Noonmeal           to               -        193867       57090.82
       Scheme Audit
                          2020-2021

 16.   Agriculture
                          2019-2020       2020-2021         30634    23042.67
       Department
*   2020-2021 Annual     Account   not   received.   only    transaction   audit
    completed.
** 2019-2020, 2020-2021 Annual Account not received. Only transaction
   audit completed




                                   112
                      ANNEXURE-IV
         DEPARTMENT OF AUDIT FOR MILK
                CO-OPERATIVES

IV(a) - Audit progress for the past 3 years

            Total                     Audit
 Audit                   Audit                    Audit
           no. of                  Certificate
 year                  Completed                 Pending
          societies                  issued

                                                    32
                                                   (29
 2018-                                           Societies
            9857         9825         9819
 2019                                             Books
                                                   not
                                                 written)
                                                    221
                                                   (177
 2019-                                           Societies
            10081        9860         9757
 2020                                             Books
                                                    not
                                                 written)
                                                   1501
                                                  (1348
 2020-                                           Societies
            10382        8881         4255
 2021                                             Books
                                                    not
                                                 written)




                          113
                              ANNEXURE-V
                        ANNEXURE-V
          HINDU RELIGIOUS   INSTITUTIONS AUDIT
                       DEPARTMENT
            HINDU RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS AUDIT
                              DEPARTMENT
V(a) - Status of audit as on 31.03.2022
     V(a) - Status of audit as on 31.03.2022                      No of Faslis
                                                         No. of
Sl.                                                    No.  of
                                                                No Pending
                                                                   of Faslis as
             Category                Grade             Institut
No. Sl.         Category             Grade            Institut
                                                                Pendingonas
     No.                                                  ions      on
                                                        ions      31.03.2022
                                                                   31.03.2022
                              Joint Commissioner/
 1           Special 1         Joint Commissioner/            11              5
     1          Special 1       Executive Officer        11              5
                                 Executive Officer
                                      Deputy
                                      Deputy
 2   2       Special 22
               Special           Commissioner/
                                  Commissioner/          9 9             0    0
                                Executive   Officer
                                 Executive Officer
                                     Assistant
                                     Assistant
 3   3         Special
             Special 33           Commissioner/
                                 Commissioner/           2727            3    3
                                 Executive Officer
                                Executive   Officer
                                   More than
                                   More than
     4        Category 1                                709             287
 4          Category 1             Rs.5 lakh             709                 287
                                   Rs.5 lakh
     5         Category 2          Rs.2-5 lakh          662             351
 5          Category 2            Rs.2-5 lakh            662                 351
     6         Category 3       Rs.60000-200000        1030            1782
 6          Category 3         Rs.60000-200000           1030                1782
     7         Category 4       Rs.10000-60000         2378            12767
 7          Category 4         Rs.10000-60000            2378             12767
     8         Category 5      Non-listed temples      6282            50650
 8   9      Category  5
             Orukala Poojai   Non-listed temples         6282
                                                      12959               50650
                                                                       40210
 9 10           Thiruppani
           Orukala  Poojai                             12959              40210
                                                                        659
                 Accounts
             Thiruppani
10             Gramappura                                                    659
     11       Accounts
                Thiruppani                                              10
            Gramappura
                 Accounts
11           Thiruppani
               Educational                                                    10
     12       Accounts
                Institution                             25              13
                 Accounts
            Educational
12           Institution
              Miscellaneous                               25                  13
     13                                                 13              24
              Accounts
                Accounts
           Miscellaneous
13 14         Annadhanam                                  13
                                                        754              8 24
             Accounts

14         Annadhanam                                    754                  8

                                     114

                                     114
                                                       FINANCE DEPARTMENT


                                                                   POLICY NOTE
                                                                    2022 - 2023




                                                                 DEMAND No. 16




                                                     Dr. PALANIVEL THIAGA RAJAN
                                                     Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management




                                                                 Government of Tamil Nadu
                                                                         2022
Printed by Govt. Central Press, Chennai - 600 001.
