TAMIL NADU URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCIAL
          SERVICES LTD (TNUIFSL)



                      &



 Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA)




  Tamil Nadu Climate Resilient Urban Development
                Program (TNCRUDP)

              Project ID No. P179189




PROJECT PROCUREMENT STRATEGY
   FOR DEVELOPMENT (PPSD)



              September 2023
Currency table

INR 1 Lakh = INR 100,000 = INR Hundred Thousand

INR 10 Lakhs = INR 1 million

INR 100 Lakhs = INR 10 million = INR 1 Crore

1 US$ = INR 82

1 million US$ = INR 8.2 Crore = INR 82 million = INR 820 Lakhs = INR 8.2 Crore

I. Project Overview


Country:                       India

State:                         Tamil Nadu

Department:                    Municipal Administration     &   Water   Supply
                               Department (MAWS)

Project Implementing           Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial
Agencies                       Services Ltd (TNUIFSL) & Directorate of
                               Municipal Administration (DMA)

Full Project Name:             Tamil  Nadu    Climate  Resilient        Urban
                               Development Program (TNCRUDP)

                               US$ 450 million, in which:
Total Finance ($):             IBRD            US$ 300.0 million
                               Government US$ 150.0 million
                               TA component: US$30 million (US$21 million
                               IBRD loan and US$9 million Government
                               Finance)

Project Number:                P179189

Project Development            The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to
Objective                      strengthen urban management and improve
                               access to efficient and climate resilient urban
                               water and sanitation services in participating
                               ULBs in Tamil Nadu
The PPSD does not anticipate any major risks from the operation context. Also, the
procurement opportunities may elicit adequate participation and no market risk
foreseen. However, the DMA and TNUIFSL need a smooth transition from the
procurement guidelines regime to the procurement regulations. Till the completion
of key procurement activities, the PMUs require dedicated procurement staff assigned
to the TNCRUDP considering the staff turnover or staff posted with multiple projects
financed by other development partners. Also, training in Bank’s procurement
regulations is required for the team members managing the procurement and
contract management directly or indirectly throughout the procurement cycle. The
DMA and TNUIFL need to strengthen the procurement monitoring mechanism to
manage the consultancies awarded on behalf of the ULBs. Most envisage`d
consultancies will be procured using open competitive procurement targeting the
national market.
1. Background: The Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department
(MAWSD) intends to implement the Tamil Nadu Climate Resilient Urban Development
Program (TNCRUDP) that would demonstrate a ‘results-oriented’ approach and
mainstream climate resilience in urban development by supporting the priorities of
the GoTN’s Urban Vision 2031. The project implementation period is for six years
between 2024 and 2029 (FY). The TNCRUDP will be using the Bank’s PforR financing
instrument with TA component. The TA component will be following the Bank’s
Procurement Regulation for IPF Borrower. The overall government program (“p”) is
US$2.15 billion and PforR Program is US $807.44 m. the World Bank (IBRD) will
finance US$279 million (or 35 percent) of the PforR (“P”). The IPF-TA component for
US$30 million which is funded by US$21 million from IBRD and US$9 million from
GoTN.
2. IPF Component to Finance Technical Assistance (TA) activities: [US$30 million of
which US$21 million is IBRD Loan]. The main objectives of this component are to: (i)
provide technical support for program implementation; and (ii) provide other
systemic technical assistance for urban sector and ULBs in TN. This TA will have two
sub-components that would be implemented through the office of the DMA and
TNUIFSL and the main TA activities are as listed in the table below –
a. TNUIFSL activities in the first 18 months:

 S.N                                           Procurement   Cost Estimate   US $
                    Activities
  o                                              Category        in Cr.       Mn
       Setting up of RTDAS and Control
  1    Rooms for Chennai Real Time Flood          Goods          49.66       6.06
       Forecasting Project (CRTFF)
       Supervisory    Consulting   Services
       during the Handholding Phase for the
  2                                            Consultancy       0.84        0.10
       Chennai Real Time Flood Forecasting
       Project
       Consulting Services for Generation of
  3                                            Consultancy       3.00        0.36
       DEM & DSM using High Resolution
     Satellite Image for the Chennai Real
     Time Flood Forecasting Project
     Proof Checking the DPR of Integrated
     Storm Water Drain (ISWD) for                                    0.06
4                                              Consultancy   0.49
     Tambaram           City       Municipal
     Corporation
     Preparation of Business Plan for
     TNUDF          and        Documentary
                                                                     0.11
5    highlighting the impacts of TNUDF on      Consultancy   0.90
     Urban Infrastructure Development
     across the ULBs in Tamil Nadu
     Institutional     Strengthening      of
     TNUIFSL - Appointment of Technical
6                                              Consultancy   1.50    0.18
     Quality Audit and Technical Quality
     Consultants
     Institutional Strengthening of TNUDF
     / ULBs - Appointment of Climate
7    Experts / E&SS Experts / Auditors /       Consultancy   1.50    0.18
     SCADA      Handholding      Experts   /
     Communication Experts etc..,
     Proof     Checking     the    DPR   for
     improvements to the Water Supply in
8                                              Consultancy   0.50    0.06
     Tambaram           City       Municipal
     Corporation
     Revenue Augmentation Project by
     preparation of Property Survey &
     Utility Mapping including geotagged
     locations of septic tanks with web
9    application using GIS for the selected    Consultancy   11.00   1.34
     ULB’s including Setting up of GIS
     Control     Room     with    necessary
     integration with the existing Urban
     Tree Information System (UTIS) etc.,
     Consulting Services for Preparation
     of Climate Resilient Feasibility
     Reports for Utilising the existing
10                                             Consultancy   2.00    0.24
     Water Bodies as additional source of
     water supply to the nearby local
     bodies from Rivers basins
     Consulting Services for Preparation
     of Climate Resilient DPR’s for
11   Utilising the existing Water Bodies as    Consultancy   6.00    0.73
     additional source of water supply to
     the nearby local bodies
     Carbon Sequestration study for the
     greenery efforts carried out in Adyar
     & Cooum Rivers and to identify a
12   buyer for the carbon credit in            Consultancy   0.75    0.09
     Tholkappia Poonga (358 acres) and
     greenery efforts in Cooum & Adyar
     Rivers.
     Carrying        out        Performance
13   Assessment          of       completed    Consultancy   1.00    0.12
     Underground       Sewerage      System
       (UGSS) in 51 towns in Tamil Nadu and
       suggest the feasibility for safe
       disposal of sledge from STPs
                                      Total                       79.14        9.62

b. DMA activities for first 18 months:

 S.N                                             Procurement   Cost Estimate   US $
                     Activities
  o                                                Category        in Cr.       Mn
       Independent Verification Agency for       Consultancy       12.38       1.5
       verifying the DLIs under Tamil Nadu
  1
       Climate Resilient Urban
       Development Program (TNCRUDP)
       Establishment of Technical Expert         Consultancy       13.19       1.63
  2
       Cell in Project ULBs
       Consulting Services for preparation       Consultancy       7.55        0.92
  3    of City Climate Action Plan for ULBs
       AMC for UTIS – Hardware                   Consultancy       1.01        0.12
  4    Infrastructure in TNSDC &TNDRC for
       one year
       AMC for UTIS application for the          Consultancy       1.41        0.17
  5    period from November 2023 to Oct
       2024
       AMC for mobile Application (TNUrban       Consultancy       0.25        0.03
  6    eSevai) for a period of one year
       AMC for ICT infrastructure installed at   Consultancy       0.17        0.02
  7    DMA for the year March 2024- Feb 25
       Consulting Services for GIS mapping       Consultancy       7.63        0.93
  8    & Door-to-Door survey for developing
       Municipal Information System
       Procurement of New Hardware                  Goods          18.35       2.24
  9    infrastructure for UTIS application
       One month Software Development            Consultancy       1.18        0.14
 10    Training to the IT staff DMA’s office
       and ULBs
                                      Total                       63.12        7.70


3. Applicable Procurement Framework: The PMUs (DMA and TNUIFSL) follows the
World Bank’s Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers dated September 2023
(Procurement Regulations) for the procurement of goods, non-consultancy services,
and services (excluding Works) activities envisaged under the TA component. In
addition, the Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in
Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants, revised July 1, 2016,
and the provisions agreed in the Financing Agreement are applicable.
TNUIFSL has prepared a consolidated Project Procurement Strategy for Development
(PPSD) for the IPF-TA Component (including DMA) in line with the stipulated
mandatory requirement as per the World Bank's ‘Procurement Regulations for
Projects financed by Investment Project Financing – September 2023'. The PPSD
defines procurement objectives in line with the Project Development Objectives (PDO)
of TNCRUDP.
To procure and implement key transactions, the PPSD considered (i) operational
context, (ii) the Borrower's procurement capacity, and (iii) market dynamics to
identify potential procurement risks likely to impact the accomplishment of PDOs and
proposed corresponding mitigation measures. For high-value and high-risk key
procurement activities, the PPSD discussed the merits/demerits of feasible Fit for
Purpose (FfP) selection methods/arrangements and market options (procurement
approach) available in the NPF and recommended an optimum FfP procurement
approach to achieve Value for Money (VfM) and achievement of PDOs.
4. Project Procurement Profile: The TA component comprises of few consultancies
(studies related to strategic and polices, master plan, etc), goods (ICT) and non-
consulting services (capacity building & training). The TA component is not having
works procurement. The IPF TA component will support TNUIFSL in the following
activities: (a) pooling a set of interested ULBs and subprojects with sufficient
creditworthiness to structure a transaction with support from financial advisors; (b)
undertaking a credit rating through a rating agency; and (c) appointing a merchant
banker to undertake issuance of the bond in capital markets, including ensuring SEBI
regulatory compliance. The TA component will provide capacity-building support to
the ULBs to prepare and implement subprojects and urban sector studies and
planning.
Under TA for TNCRUDP, the Bank is to consider financing an activity procured in the
TNSUDP. The TA also include a prior review procurement activity notified with an
award of contract through TNSUDP will be financed under TNCRUDP. The Bank
reviewed key stages until the award notification and accorded No Objection. The
TNUIFSL uploaded relevant documents per the STEP roadmap. As of date, TNUIFSL
notified the contract award on 13 Mar 2023 before the closure of the TNSUDP (31 Mar
2023). This contract management of this activity will be managed under TNCRUDP
STEP Portal.
5. Spend Profile: TNUIFSL and DMA has identified key procurement transactions
under TNCRUDP for the first 18 months. IAs for TA shall spend about US$ 10.5 mn
34.88 % of the overall project cost for the TA during the first 18 months. Advance
Contracting may award US$ 17.35 mn (57.7% of the TA). However, the retroactive
financing spend is limited to US$ 4.2 mn (20% of the TA)
6. Operational Context: Tamil Nadu is ranked 3rd in ease of doing business in India
2020 improving from its rank 14th from the 2019. Tamil Nadu GDP (2023-24) is
estimated at $ 354 billion making it the 2nd ranked state in India. Tamil Nadu is the
second richest state economy in India. It is also the most industrialised state in the
country.
7. Conclusions based on the discussion on the Operation context:
   •   India is an emerging economy in the World. Therefore, Fragile Conflict and
       Small (FCS) country conditions for procurement are Not Applicable.
   •   The relatively stable exchange rate and low level of inflation (compared to
       previous years) do not impose potential risks to the project implementation.
   •   The Implementing Agencies TNUIFSL & DMA, follow the World Bank's
       procurement regulations for TNCRUDP TA.
   •   The stable currency conversion rate is not influencing on the pricing. The TA is
       not having procurement activities targeting the international market.
       Economic parameters support project implementation positively.
   •   Considering stable macroeconomic parameters, a price variation clause is not
       required earlier than 18 months.
   •   The project will not use a sustainable procurement option for the envisaged
       procurement activities.
   •   The Project will use the World Bank-prescribed Standard Procurement
       Documents (SPDs) for international competition or Model Procurement
       Documents for National competition with ESMF built-in features.
   •   Most of the requirements are standard specifications except for the challenge
       of installation and support during the O&M period. The gradual change in
       Technology and negligible impact of the rate of change of technology on
       overall pricing and the contract amount. The rate of obsolescence is low except
       for a few ICT / IS-related activities.
   •   The IAs need to mobilise skilled persons for installation, operation and
       maintenance of GIS based system. The procurement documents and contracts
       need to have upfront provisions for capacity building and impart adequate
       training for continuity in GIS based projects.


II. Procurement capacity of TNUIFSL and DMA:
8. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
TNUIFSL and DMA has adequate in-house procurement capacity to articulate similar
magnitude and complex procurement transactions for the TA. TNUIFSL and DMA have
established a separate Project Management Unit (PMU) for overall project
management including procurement & contract management. The PMUs in TNUIFSL
and DMA will deploy a dedicated official to support envisaged procurement activities
(key consultancies). The works will be undertaken by the PIUs at participating ULBs
with the support of the Project Management Consultants (PMC) or TWAD Board
(Executing Agencies). TNUIFSL will render desired support to the Implementing ULBs
in articulating the procurement process and implementing the contracts as per the
agreed contractual obligations. No activity in the TA will be implemented by the ULBs.
The PMU at TNUIFSL and DM will carry out the procurement process and the cost
indicated in the cost table is approximate. Detailed cost sheets will be prepared for
each consultancy, duly considering the remuneration and reimbursable expenditure
estimates.
The DMA and TNUIFSL need a smooth transition from the procurement guidelines
regime to the procurement regulations. Till the completion of key procurement
activities, the PMUs require dedicated procurement staff assigned to the TNCRUDP
considering the staff turnover or staff posted with multiple projects financed by
other development partners. Also, training in Bank’s procurement regulations is
required for the team members managing the procurement and contract
management directly or indirectly throughout the procurement cycle. The DMA and
TNUIFL need to strengthen the procurement monitoring mechanism to manage the
consultancies awarded on behalf of the ULBs. Most envisage`d consultancies will
be procured using open competitive procurement targeting the national market.
The staff dealing with procurement and contract management may be provided with
refresher/orientation training on the New procurement Framework (NPF) and
Systematic Tracking of Exchanges in Procurement (STEP) before implementing
procurement activities and managing awarded contracts. TNUIFSL and DMA shall
identify a dedicated staff for managing the procurement management at PMU and
ensure minimal staff turnover to retain institutional memory and further develop
capacity.
9. Conclusions on Client Capability
(i).    The DMA and TNUIFSL need a smooth transition from the procurement
        guidelines regime to the procurement regulations and the staff dealing with
        procurement and contract management may receive refresher/orientation
        training on the New Procurement Framework and STEP before implementing
        procurement activities and contract execution.

(ii).   TNUIFSL and DMA has a team of officers with experience in procurement
        following World Bank procurement guidelines (for Expression of Interest,
        Shortlist, Request for Proposals, Evaluation Report and draft negotiated
        contract etc.). However, in view of the growing portfolio of multi-
        lateral funded / GoTN projects, it is recommended to have a
        dedicated staff for managing the procurement including contract
        management for the TA component.
10. Market potential: For the envisaged procurement transactions of TA, it is
planned to target the national market duly considering the availability of adequate
consultancy firms in the national market. In the past World Bank assisted projects,
TNUIFSL has observed that on average 4-5 consultants participate in the QCBS
consulting services out of the total 6 shortlisted firms. The expected average value
of a QCBS contract ranges from ₹ 0.6 Cr to ₹ 1.5 Cr.
Experiences from previous projects show that most of procurement packages were
small and most of the potential providers available in India. Most of the goods
required (ICT) are readily available on domestic markets. Goods and equipment to be
procured under the project are not sophisticated equipment and of small value. It is
found that these are in general available and/or easy to procure either in the national
/ local market.
Conclusions on Market Potential: Inference from the Market dynamics: No short
suppliers risk is foreseen.
11. Procurement risk analysis

TNUIFSL and DMA from previous project have capacity to implement procurement
activities for the TA component. These implementing agencies were involved in
earlier Bank-financed projects and are familiar with Bank policies / procedures
However, review previous experience showed that there were delays were
experienced in procurement & contract management. The risks are manageable.
Such key risks and proposed risk mitigation measures are shown in Table below –


Risk Description          Risk        Description of Mitigation               Risk Owner
                          rating      Measures

                                    It is recommended to have a
Staff    loaded    with Substantial                                           TNUIFSL &
                                    dedicated staff for managing the          DMA
multiple task due to
                                    procurement including contract
growing portfolio of
                                    management       for   the    TA
multi-lateral funded /
                                    component.
GoTN projects



Smooth transition from Substantial Refresher/orientation training on the      TNUIFSL     &
the       procurement              New procurement Framework (NPF)            DMA
guidelines regime to               and      Systematic   Tracking     of
the       procurement              Exchanges    in Procurement    (STEP)
regulations                        before implementing procurement
                                   activities and managing awarded
                                   contracts.


For contracts awarded Low             Participating   ULBs  to  provide       TNUIFSL &
on    behalf  of    the               support during the implementation       DMA in co-
participating     ULBs,               of the contracts.                       ordination
anticipating delay in                                                         with      the
support,          data,                                                       participating
approvals,          co-                                                       ULBs
ordination         with
departments, etc.
Governance        risks Low          Enhanced disclosure of procurement       TNUIFSL   &
associated with conflict             information, including publication of    DMA
of interest, fraud and               the advertisement, contract award
corruption, which may                information for all procurement
adversely affect the                 packages on TNUIFSL and DMA
efficiency         and               websites.
effectiveness of the
project                              Establish a procurement complaint
implementation.                      handling mechanism consistent with
                                     World Bank requirements.

                                     Require      staff    involved      in
                                     procurement      to   declare    their
                                     interest and sign a declaration form.

                                     Monitoring   and    reporting  on
                                     implementation of above points or
                                     strengthening transparency and
                                     procurement for the project.

For Major consultancies PPSD perused feasible selection methods/ arrangements and
market options in the NPF to arrive at the optimum Fit for Purpose (FfP) Selection
method. Optimum FfP Selection of Consulting Firms: QCBS through an Open national
market approach following direct RFP up to US$ 2 million (India specific provision)
and through Request for EoI followed by the RFP above US$ 2 million.
12. Overall Conclusion:
The PPSD does not anticipate any major risks from the operation context. Also, the
procurement opportunities may elicit adequate participation and no market risk
foreseen. However, the DMA and TNUIFSL need a smooth transition from the
procurement guidelines regime to the procurement regulations. Till the completion
of key procurement activities, the PMUs require dedicated procurement staff assigned
to the TNCRUDP considering the staff turnover or staff posted with multiple projects
financed by other development partners. Also, training in Bank’s procurement
regulations is required for the team members managing the procurement and
contract management directly or indirectly throughout the procurement cycle. The
DMA and TNUIFL need to strengthen the procurement monitoring mechanism to
manage the consultancies awarded on behalf of the ULBs. Most envisage`d
consultancies will be procured using open competitive procurement targeting the
national market.
13. Procurement Documents and resulting contracts: The Bank prescribed
SPDs will be used with Environmental and Social (E&S) provisions.
14. Procurement Monitoring: TNUIFSL and DMA is to develop a customised
monitoring system to review decentralised and scattered works using the web-based
platform and mobile phone network.
15. Advance procurement and retroactive financing: The Borrower may wish
to proceed with the procurement process before signing the Legal Agreement. The
eventual contracts shall be procured in accordance with advance contracting and
retroactive financing (Para 5.1 of the Procurement Regulations).
The discussion and conclusions in PPSD form the basis of the initial Procurement Plan
(PP), which is the key output of the PPSD. Accordingly, an initial PP has been prepared
for at least the first 18 months [Annex -1], which will be agreed upon with the World
Bank before negotiations. Then, the PMU enters the approved Plan into the World
Bank's STEP portal. The PP is expected to be updated periodically or at least once
every 12 months.
16. Procurement Arrangements: The initial PP also prescribes the agreed
procurement arrangements for the IPF component. The prior review, conducting the
post review, disclosure of the procurement-related information, and complaint
handling are as per the applicable Procurement Regulations. National competition
for the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services according to the
established thresholds will be conducted in accordance with paragraphs 5.3–5.6 of
Section V of the Procurement Regulations and the NCP provisions agreed with GoI.
Government e-Marketplace (GeM) will be allowed instead of RFQ for all activities with
cost estimates less than or equal to US$ 100,000 equivalent. Shortlisting with national
consultants is up to US$ 2 million, and up to this threshold, the Direct RFP for the
selection of consultancies is permitted (India-specific provision). E-Procurement:
GoTN uses the NIC E-Government Procurement (E-GP) platform. The Bank assessed
the NIC E-GP platform and accepted it. Record keeping and anti-corruption measures
will be as per IPF general conditions. After the Bank reviews the PPSD and agrees to
the initial PP, the PMU uploads these documents to the World Bank’s Systematic
Tracking of Exchanges in Procurement (STEP) and updates the PP in line with the
requirements of procurement regulations. The Bank provided training to registered
users with STEP and oriented the staff on procurement regulations and preparation
of the PPSD.
Annex 1: Initial Procurement Plan
Project information: Tamil Nadu Climate Resilient Urban Development
Program (P179189)
Implementing Agencies: PMU- DMA and PMU- TNUIFSL
Date of the Procurement Plan: 26.09.2023
Period covered by this Procurement Plan: at least for 18 months [as updated
regularly on STEP]
Preamble
In accordance with paragraph 5.9 of the "World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers" (September 2023) ("Procurement Regulations") the Bank's Systematic
Tracking and Exchanges in Procurement (STEP) system will be used to prepare, clear
and update Procurement Plans and conduct all procurement transactions for the
Project.
This textual part along with the Procurement Plan tables in STEP constitute the
Procurement Plan for the Project. The following conditions apply to all procurement
activities in the Procurement Plan. The other elements of the Procurement Plan as
required under paragraph 4.4 of the Procurement Regulations are set forth in STEP.
The Bank's Standard Procurement Documents: shall be used for all contracts
subject to international competitive procurement and those contracts as specified in
the Procurement Plan tables in STEP. From effective September 1, 2023, the World
Bank will require the use of Rated Criteria as the default approach for most of the
international procurements1 (subject to either prior or post review of the Bank)
National Procurement Arrangements: In accordance with paragraph 5.3 of the
Procurement Regulations, when approaching the national market (as specified in the
Procurement Plan tables in STEP), the country's own procurement procedures may
be used.
Open National competition for the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting
services according to the established thresholds will be conducted in accordance with
paragraphs 5.3 – 5.6 of Section V of the Regulations and the following provisions:
    1. Only the model bidding documents for National Competitive
       Procurement (NCP) agreed with the GOI Task Force (and as amended for
       time to time), shall be used for bidding.
    2. Invitations to bid shall be advertised on a widely used website or
       electronic portal with free open access at least 30 days prior to the


1New international procurements advertised on or after September 1, 2023 using a Bank
Standard Procurement Document must use Rated Criteria. However, application of Rated
Criteria will not be mandatory for: Pharmaceuticals; Vaccines; Off the shelf goods and
educational materials; Commodities; Other exception cleared by the World Bank on a fit-for-
purpose basis
      deadline for the submission of bids, unless otherwise agreed in the
      approved procurement plan.
   3. No special preference will be accorded to any bidder either for price or
      for other terms and conditions when competing with foreign bidders,
      state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any
      given State.
   4. Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no
      negotiation of price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated
      bidder.
   5. Government e-Marketplace (GeM) set-up by Ministry of Commerce,
      Government of India will be acceptable for procurement under Request
      for Quotations (RFQ) method.
   6. At the Borrower’s request, the Bank may agree to the Borrower’s use, in
      whole or in part, of its electronic procurement system, provided that the
      Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of such system.
   7. Procurement will be open to eligible firms from any country. This
      eligibility shall be as defined under Section III of the Procurement
      Regulations. Accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
      ineligible for contracts financed by the Bank for reasons other than those
      provided in Section III of the Procurement Regulations.
   8. The request for bids/request for proposals document shall require that
      Bidders/Proposers submitting Bids/Proposals include a signed
      acceptance in the bid, to be incorporated in any resulting contracts,
      confirming application of, and compliance with, the Bank’s Anti-
      Corruption Guidelines, including without limitation the Bank’s right to
      sanction and the Bank’s inspection and audit rights.
   9. The Borrower shall use an effective complaints mechanism for handling
      procurement related complaints in a timely manner.
   10.       Procurement Documents will include provisions, as agreed with
      the Bank, intended to adequately mitigate against environmental, social
      (including sexual exploitation and abuse and gender-based violence),
      health and safety (“ESHS”) risks and impacts.
Leased Assets as specified under paragraph 5.10 of the Procurement Regulations:
Not Applicable
Procurement of Second-hand Goods as specified under paragraph 5.11 of the
Procurement Regulations: Not Applicable
Domestic preference as specified under paragraph 5.51 of the Procurement
Regulations (Goods and Works). Specify for each
    Goods: applicable for those contracts identified in the Procurement Plan tables;
    Works: is not applicable
Other Relevant Procurement Information: All contracts not subject to prior
review by the World Bank will be subject to post review during the Project's
Implementation Support Missions and/or special post review missions including
missions by consultants hired by the Bank. The World Bank may conduct, at any time,
independent procurement reviews of all the contracts financed under the loan.
Additionally, if there are internal audits carried out for sample procurements, the
Borrower may consult with the World Bank to include the Bank's requirements under
the terms of reference for such audits, in which case the Bank will review the internal
audit reports.
Fiduciary oversight and Procurement Review by the World Bank. The World
Bank shall PRIOR REVIEW all contracts set in the Procurement Plan for Substantial
Procurement Risk.


                   Table 1. Procurement Prior Review Thresholds
                                   (US$ millions)

        Type of            High         Substantial          Moderate          Low risk
      procurement          risk            risk                risk

           Works
      (including
   turnkey, supply
   & installation of        5               1                   1               20
      plant and                             0                   5
   equipment, and
         PPP)
        Goods,
     information
     technology,          1.5              2                   4                6
       and non-
      consulting
       services
      Consulting
    Services: firms       0.5              1                   2                4



     Consulting
      Services:           0.2             0.3                 0.4              0.5
     Individuals


  Notes:
    1. These thresholds apply to all procurement activities regardless of their
       procurement/selection methods. There is no automatic requirement to
       undertake prior review for direct selection for value less than these thresholds.
       Consultant services covers a range of services that are of an advisory or
       professional nature.
      2. In addition to the provisions above, and irrespective of the contract value, the
         following procurement activities are subject to the Bank’s procurement prior
         review: (a) procurement processes involving Contract Negotiations as,
         described in paragraphs 6.34-36 of Section VI Public Disclosure Authorized
         Public Disclosure Authorized Public Disclosure Authorized Public Disclosure
         Authorized of the Procurement Regulations; (b) Competitive Dialogue; (c)
         Sustainable Procurement; and (d) Best and Final Offer (BAFO)


Prior Procurement Arrangements:

The Procurement Arrangements as indicated in the below table and within the
thresholds indicated in the below tables will be used. The thresholds for the
Bank’s prior review requirements are also provided in the table below:

(The table below depicts the Thresholds and Selection Methods to be used
under the TNCRUDP - TA):

              Thresholds*, Selection Methods, and Prior Review

                                  Selection method threshold             Prior review thresholds2
           Category
                                Threshold    (in   Threshold       Threshold (US $)
                                Rs.)               (in US $)3

Goods, IT and Non-Consulting Services

Request for Bids (RFB) using      24.60 crore      >= 3 million    All
Open, International market        and above
approach

Request for Bids (RFB) using    Upto 24.60         < 3 million     All Contract packages
the Open, National market       crore                              estimated to cost above 2
approach                                                           million including Direct
                                                                   Selection

Request for Quotations (RFQ)    Upto 82.00         < 0.1 million
                                Lakhs

Works (Turnkey, Supply & Installation of plant & Equipment and PPP) Contracts
                                Not Envisaged through TA
Consulting Services
                                Under 2.46         <= 0.3          All Contract packages
CQS
                                crore              million         estimated to cost above 1
FBS, LCS                        in justified cases                 million including Direct
QCBS, QBS,                      in all other packages              Contracting
                                Must meet the requirements of
                                Para 7.13 to 7.15 of the
Direct Selection                Regulations, and with prior
                                clearance by the Bank thru
                                procurement plan.
                                Open Competitive                   Contract packages estimated
2 Based on the risk rating assigned by the World Bank. As on       date  the risk is “Substantial”.
                                Selection: As per                   to cost above  0.3 million
Individual
3 1.00 US$ Consultant (IC)
            = INR 82.00         requirements of para 7.36 and      including Direct Selection
                                7.37 of the Regulations
                                 Limited competitive
                                 Selection: As per
                                 requirements of para 7.38 of
                                 the Regulations
                                 Direct Selection: Must meet
                                 the requirements of Para 7.39
                                 of the Regulations, and with
                                 prior agreement in PP with the
                                 Bank
                                                  All procurement that meet the requirements
Framework Agreements (Goods, & as per Para 6.57 to 6.59 of Procurement
consulting Services)                              Regulations and with prior agreement in PP
                                                  with the Bank
UN Agencies                                       In accordance with paragraph 7.27 & 7.28 of
                                                  the Procurement Regulations, and with prior
                                                  agreement in Procurement plan with the
                                                  Bank
NGOs                                              In accordance with paragraph 7.29 of the
                                                  Procurement Regulations.
*NOTE: The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank/Association. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank shall be entitled to conduct, at
any time, independent procurement reviews of all the contracts financed under the
Loan/Financing
Note 1: The short list may consist of all National consultants in
case the estimated cost is less than USD 2,000,000; Direct RFP
(REoI and RFP) India specific provision is allowed up to US$
2,000,000

Note 2: Government eMarket Place [(GeM) https://gem.gov.in/ ]is an online end to end
procurement portal. All the activities from registration of buyers and sellers to purchase and
even payment to the sellers are completely online. The PMU may
    1. up to INR 50,000 in catalogue mode (viz. any available item could be selected by IA
       without further competition), provided selected Item/Supplier meeting the requisite
       quality, specification and delivery period.
    2. up to INR 3 million from the Supplier having the lowest price amongst at least three
       Suppliers meeting the requisite quality, specification and delivery period. The tools
       for online bidding and online reverse auction available on GeM may be used by the
       Purchaser.n
    3. up to INR equivalent of US$ 100,000 from the Supplier having lowest price and
       meeting the requisite quality, specification and delivery period after mandatorily
       obtaining bids from at least three Suppliers, using online bidding or reverse auction
       tool provided on GeM.
while making use of GeM portal, Special Terms and Conditions meant for World Bank
financed projects shall be used https://assets-bg.gem.gov.in/resources/pdf/stc-
world-bank.pdf. In both above cases Borrowers will record their assessment on
reasonableness of price. GeM is not to be used for procurement in lieu of RFB - Open
National or International Procurement Methods.

Note 3: In addition to above there are other selection arrangements available
in the Bank procurement regulations September 2023 which subject to Bank
prior clearance can be incorporated in future by updating the procurement
plan and shall be based on the project need.
Note 4: These thresholds are for the purposes of the initial procurement plan for the
first 18 months. The thresholds may be increased or decreased based on re-assessment
of risks assessment. All contracts not subject to prior review will be post-reviewed.


Pre-qualification: No

Proposed Procedures for CDD Components: No


Reference to (if any) Project Operational/Procurement Manual: None for the
TA;

Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: Not Applicable

Procurement Packages/Plan with Procurement Arrangements and Time
Schedule: as per the Table below:
a. Goods and Non-consulting services

                                                                            Review
                                                                                                  Expected
                                                                              by       Planned
                                                    Estimated                                      month /
           Description of                                                    Bank      issuance
                                    Implementing     Cost in Selection                             year of
S.N         Assignment                                                                  of RFP                  Comments
                                       Agency        USD mn   Method                              Contract
                                                                            (Prior /    month /
                                                                                                   Award
                                                                             Post)       year

                                                                                                             Prior      approval
                                                                                                             obtained from Bank
      Setting up of RTDAS and
                                                                                                             for award following
      Control Rooms for Chennai         TNUIFSL              Request
  1                                                   6.06                  Prior      N/A        Mar 2023   RFB-NCB      Goods
      Real Time Flood Forecasting   (through WRD)            for Bids
                                                                                                             under      TNSUDP.
      Project (CRTFF)
                                                                                                             Agreement is yet to
                                                                                                             be executed.

      Procurement      of   New
                                                             Request
  2   Hardware Infrastructure for       DMA           2.24                  Prior      Mar 2024   Jun 2024
                                                             for Bids
      UTIS application

b. Consulting services

                                                                            Review
                                                                                                  Expected
                                                                              by       Planned
                                                    Estimated                                      month /
           Description of                                                    Bank      issuance
                                    Implementing     Cost in Selection                             year of
S.N         Assignment                                                                  of RFP                  Comments
                                       Agency        USD mn   Method                              Contract
                                                                            (Prior /    month /
                                                                                                   Award
                                                                             Post)       year

      Supervisory      Consulting
      Services     during     the
                                                             RFP        –
 1    Handholding Phase for the     TNUIFSL           0.10
                                                             Direct
                                                                            Post       Mar 2023   Jun 2023
      Chennai Real Time Flood
      Forecasting Project
    Consulting   Services    for
    Generation of DEM & DSM
    using    High    Resolution                      RFP      –
2                                   TNUIFSL   0.36                Post   Sep 2023   Nov 2023
    Satellite Image for the                          Direct
    Chennai Real Time Flood
    Forecasting Project

    Proof Checking the DPR of
                                              0.06
    Integrated Storm Water                           RFP      –
3                                   TNUIFSL                       Post   Jul 2023   Sep 2023
    Drain (ISWD) for Tambaram                        Direct
    City Municipal Corporation

    Consulting   Services    for
    Preparation of Business
    Plan   for   TNUDF      and
    Documentary highlighting                  0.11   RFP      –
4                                   TNUIFSL                       Post   Oct 2023   Dec 2023
    the impacts of TNUDF on                          QCBS
    Urban         Infrastructure
    Development across the
    ULBs in Tamil Nadu

    Institutional Strengthening
    of TNUIFSL - Appointment of
                                                     RFP      –
5   Technical Quality Audit and     TNUIFSL   0.18                Post   Mar 2023   Apr 2023
                                                     Direct
    Technical            Quality
    Consultants

    Institutional Strengthening
    of     TNUDF     /   ULBs   -
    Appointment of Climate
    Experts / E&SS Experts /                         RFP      –
6                                   TNUIFSL   0.18                Post   Mar 2024   Apr 2024
    Auditors       /       SCADA                     Direct
    Handholding        Experts  /
    Communication         Experts
    etc..,

    Proof Checking the DPR for                       RFP      –
7                                   TNUIFSL   0.06                Post   Nov 2023   Jan 2024
    improvements to the Water                        QCBS
     Supply in Tambaram City
     Municipal Corporation

     Revenue       Augmentation
     Project by preparation of
     Property Survey & Utility
     Mapping             including
     geotagged     locations    of
     septic tanks with web
                                                       RFP      –
8    application using GIS for the    TNUIFSL   1.34                Prior   Dec 2023   Feb 2024
                                                       QCBS
     selected ULB’s including
     Setting up of GIS Control
     Room      with     necessary
     integration with the existing
     Urban Tree Information
     System (UTIS) etc.,

     Consulting    Services    for
     Preparation    of     Climate
     Resilient Feasibility Reports
     for Utilising the existing                        RFP      –
9                                     TNUIFSL   0.24                Post    Jun 2024   Sep 2024
     Water Bodies as additional                        QCBS
     source of water supply to
     the nearby local bodies
     from Rivers basins

     Consulting   Services      for
     Preparation    of   Climate
     Resilient DPR’s for Utilising
                                                       RFP      –
10   the existing Water Bodies        TNUIFSL   0.73                Post    Oct 2023   Dec 2023
                                                       QCBS
     as additional source of
     water supply to the nearby
     local bodies

     Carbon         Sequestration
     Study for the greenery
                                                       RFP      -
11   efforts carried out in Adyar     TNUIFSL   0.09                Post    Nov 2023   Dec 2023
                                                       Direct
     & Cooum Rivers and to
     identify a buyer for the
     carbon credit in Tholkappia
     Poonga (358 acres) and
     greenery efforts in Cooum
     & Adyar Rivers.

     Carrying out Performance
     Assessment of completed
     Underground     Sewerage
     System (UGSS) in 51 towns                      RFP    –
12                                 TNUIFSL   0.12              Post    Oct 2023   Dec 2023
     in Tamil Nadu and suggest                      QCBS
     the feasibility for safe
     disposal of sledge from
     STPs

     Independent    Verification
     Agency for verifying the
     DLIs under Tamil Nadu                          RFP    –
13                                 DMA       1.50              Prior   Sep 2023   Nov 2023
     Climate Resilient Urban                        QCBS
     Development      Program
     (TNCRUDP)

     Establishment of Technical                     RFP    –
14                                 DMA       1.63              Prior   Apr 2024   June 2024
     Expert Cell in Project ULBs                    QCBS

     Consulting    Services  for
                                                    RFP    –
15   preparation of City Climate   DMA       0.92              Post    Apr 2024   June 2024
                                                    QCBS
     Action Plan for ULBs

                                                                                              The AMC amount
                                                                                              spent for the period
                                                                                              Apr 2023 to Oct
                                                                                              2023     would    be
     AMC for UTIS – Hardware                                                                  claimed        under
                                                    RFP    –
16   Infrastructure in TNSDC       DMA       0.12              Post    Oct 2023   Nov 2023    retroactive finance.
                                                    QCBS
     &TNDRC for one year                                                                      For the period from
                                                                                              Nov    2023,     RFP
                                                                                              would be issued for
                                                                                              appointing      AMC
                                                                                              Vendors.
                                                                                           The AMC amount
                                                                                           spent for the period
                                                                                           Apr 2023 to Oct
                                                                                           2023     would    be
     AMC for UTIS application for                                                          claimed        under
                                                 RFP      –
17   the period from November       DMA   0.17                Post   Oct 2023   Nov 2023   retroactive finance.
                                                 QCBS
     2023 to Oct 2024                                                                      For the period from
                                                                                           Nov    2023,     RFP
                                                                                           would be issued for
                                                                                           appointing      AMC
                                                                                           Vendors.

     AMC for Mobile Application
                                                 RFP      –
18   (TNUrban eSevai) for a         DMA   0.03                Post   Dec 2023   Jan 2024
                                                 QCBS
     period of one year

                                                                                           The AMC amount
                                                                                           spent for the period
                                                                                           Mar     2023       to
                                                                                           February       2024
                                                                                           would be claimed
     AMC for ICT Infrastructure
                                                 RFP      –                                under    retroactive
19   installed at DMA for the       DMA   0.02                Post   Feb 2024   Mar 2024
                                                 QCBS                                      finance. For the
     year March 2024-Feb 25
                                                                                           period from March
                                                                                           2024, RFP would be
                                                                                           issued            for
                                                                                           appointing     AMC
                                                                                           Vendors.

     Consulting Services for GIS
     mapping & Door-to-Door
                                                 RFP      –
20   survey    for   developing     DMA   0.93                Post   Mar 2024   May 2024
                                                 QCBS
     Municipal      Information
     System

     One    month   Software                     RFP      –
21                                  DMA   0.14                Post   Jan 2024   Jan 2024
     Development Training to                     Direct
the IT staff DMA’s office and
ULBs
PROCUREMENT
                India : Tamil Nadu Climate Resilient Urban Development Program
PLAN
General Information
Country:           India                                                                                   2023-10-12
                                                      Bank’s Approval Date of the Original Procurement Plan:
                                                                                                           2023-10-12
                                                      Revised Plan Date(s): (comma delineated, leave blank if none)
Project ID:        P179189                            GPN Date:                                            2023-05-17
Project Name:      Tamil Nadu Climate Resilient Urban Development Program
Loan / Credit No:   /
                   Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited
Executing Agency(ies):

WORKS
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                          Estimated Actual Am                                                                                                                                                                                   Bid Evaluation Report
                                  Loan / Credit N                                                     Market Approac Procurement Pro Prequalification High SEA/SH R Procurement D                     Process St Draft Pre-qualification Prequalification Evalu                              Draft Bidding Docum Specific Procurement         Bidding Documents a Proposal Submission /                                                           Contract Complet
       Description                                  Component      Review Type       Method                                                                                       Amount (U ount (US$                                                                                                                                                                                   and Recommendation                    Signed Contract
                                         o.                                                                  h             cess           (Y/N)             isk     ocument Type                         atus         Documents               ation Report                                    ent / Justification Notice / Invitation               s Issued        Opening / Minutes                                                                    ion
                                                                                                                                                                                      S$)       )                                                                                                                                                                                             for Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Planned     Actual      Planned      Actual                                Planned       Actual      Planned     Actual      Planned     Actual  Planned     Actual    Planned     Actual                 Planned      Actual   Planned




GOODS
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bid Evaluation Report
                                  Loan / Credit N                                                     Market Approac Procurement Pro Prequalification Estimated Am Actual Amount                    Process St Draft Pre-qualification Prequalification Evalu      Draft Bidding Docum Specific Procurement            Bidding Documents a Proposal Submission /
       Description                                  Component      Review Type       Method                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and Recommendation                 Signed Contract         Contract Completion
                                         o.                                                                  h             cess           (Y/N)        ount (US$)      (US$)                           atus         Documents              ation Report             ent / Justification Notice / Invitation                  s Issued        Opening / Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Planned       Actual     Planned     Actual     Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual       Planned     Actual  Planned     Actual    Planned     Actual              Planned       Actual      Planned      Actual
 IN-TNUIFSL-350974-GO-RFB
/ Setting up of Real Time Dat
a Acquisition System (RTDAS
), Hydro Modelling Flood Cont                                                                                             Single Stage - Two E                                                      Pending Impl
                                  /                             Prior            Request for Bids     Open - National                                              6,060,000.00              0.00                                                                  2023-03-20                2023-03-20                                       2023-03-20                2023-03-20                2023-11-15                2024-09-10
rol Room at SEOC, Ezhilagam                                                                                               nvelope                                                                   ementation
and Flood Monitoring Centres
for Water Resources Depart
ment Headquarters at Chepa
uk and Four Collectorates



NON CONSULTING SERVICES
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bid Evaluation Report
                                  Loan / Credit N                                                     Market Approac Procurement Pro Prequalification Estimated Am Actual Amount                    Process St Draft Pre-qualification Prequalification Evalu      Draft Bidding Docum Specific Procurement            Bidding Documents a Proposal Submission /
       Description                                  Component      Review Type       Method                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and Recommendation                 Signed Contract         Contract Completion
                                         o.                                                                  h             cess           (Y/N)        ount (US$)      (US$)                           atus         Documents              ation Report             ent / Justification Notice / Invitation                  s Issued        Opening / Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Planned       Actual     Planned     Actual     Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual       Planned     Actual  Planned     Actual    Planned     Actual              Planned       Actual      Planned      Actual




CONSULTING FIRMS
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Combined Evaluation
                                  Loan / Credit N                                                     Market Approac       Contract Type         Estimated Amo Actual Amount                                                   Expression of Interest Short List and Draft R Request for Proposals Opening of Technical           Evaluation of Technic
       Description                                  Component      Review Type        Method                                                                                 Process Status          Terms of Reference                                                                                                                                 Report and Draft Neg           Signed Contract         Contract Completion
                                         o.                                                                  h                                      unt (US$)      (US$)                                                              Notice          equest for Proposals        as Issued         Proposals / Minutes                al Proposal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           otiated Contract
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Planned       Actual       Planned     Actual     Planned      Actual      Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual    Planned      Actual    Planned     Actual          Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual
 IN-TNUIFSL-384700-CS-QCB
S / Consulting Services for Pr
eparation of Business Plan fo
                                                                                 Quality And Cost-                                                                                Pending Impleme
r TNUDF and Documentary hi        /                             Post                                  Open - National                                110,000.00            0.00                     2023-10-09                 2023-10-09             2023-10-16                                          2023-11-16             2023-11-30                2023-12-21                2024-02-01                2025-01-31
                                                                                 Based Selection                                                                                  ntation
ghlighting the impacts of TN
UDF on Urban Infrastructure
Development across the ULB
s in Tamil Nadu

 IN-TNUIFSL-384702-CS-QCB
S / Consulting services for Pr
                                                                                 Quality And Cost-                                                                                Pending Impleme
oof Checking the DPR for imp      /                             Post                                  Open - National                                 60,000.00            0.00                     2023-11-12                 2023-11-12             2023-11-19                                          2023-12-20             2024-01-03                2024-01-24                2024-03-06                2024-08-03
                                                                                 Based Selection                                                                                  ntation
rovements to the Water Supp
ly in Tambaram City Municip
al Corporation

 IN-TNUIFSL-384716-CS-QCB
S / Consulting services for “C
arrying out Performance Ass
essment of completed Under                                                       Quality And Cost-                                                                                Pending Impleme
                                  /                             Post                                  Open - National                                120,000.00            0.00                     2023-10-10                 2023-10-10             2023-10-17                                          2023-11-16             2023-11-30                2023-12-21                2024-02-01                2024-07-30
Ground Sewerage System (U                                                        Based Selection                                                                                  ntation
GSS) in 51 Towns in Tamil Na
du and suggest the feasibility
for safe disposal of sludge fro
m STPs”

 IN-TNUIFSL-384721-CS-QCB
S / Consulting services for “R
evenue Augmentation projec
t by Property Survey & Utility                                                   Quality And Cost-                                                                                Pending Impleme
                                  /                             Prior                                 Open - National                               1,340,000.00           0.00                     2023-12-10                 2024-01-09             2024-02-06                                          2024-03-08             2024-03-22                2024-04-12                2024-05-24                2025-08-22
Mapping using GIS and integr                                                     Based Selection                                                                                  ntation
ation with existing Urban Tre
e Information System (UTIS) f
or Tambaram City Municipal
Corporation”



INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANTS
Activity Reference No. /
                                  Loan / Credit N                                                     Market Approac       Contract Type         Estimated Amo Actual Amount                                                   Invitation to Identifie Draft Negotiated Cont
       Description                                  Component      Review Type        Method                                                                                 Process Status          Terms of Reference                                                           Signed Contract         Contract Completion
                                         o.                                                                  h                                      unt (US$)      (US$)                                                       d/Selected Consultant            ract
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Planned       Actual       Planned     Actual     Planned      Actual      Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual
 IN-TNUIFSL-351024-CS-INDV
/ Appointment of Individual C
onsultant (Mr.R.Sivashanmug                                                      Individual Consult                                                                               Pending Impleme
                                  /                             Post                                  Direct - National                               75,000.00            0.00                     2023-03-20                 2023-03-27             2023-03-30                2023-04-01                2027-03-31
am) as Technical Quality Aud                                                     ant Selection                                                                                    ntation
it consultants for review and
monitoring of all TNUDF and
TNCRUDP sub-projects

 IN-TNUIFSL-351022-CS-INDV
/ Appointment of Individual C
onsultant (Mr.M.Muthuvalliap                                                     Individual Consult                                                                               Pending Impleme
                                  /                             Post                                  Direct - National                               66,500.00            0.00                     2023-03-20                 2023-03-27             2023-03-30                2023-04-01                2027-03-31
pan) as Technical Quality Au                                                     ant Selection                                                                                    ntation
dit consultant for review and
monitoring of all TNUDF and
TNCRUDP sub-projects

 IN-TNUIFSL-351020-CS-INDV
/ Appointment of Individual C
onsultant (Mr.E.Ayyanar Bhar                                                     Individual Consult                                                                               Pending Impleme
                                  /                             Post                                  Direct - National                               75,000.00            0.00                     2023-03-20                 2023-03-27             2023-03-30                2023-04-01                2027-03-31
athi) as Technical Quality Au                                                    ant Selection                                                                                    ntation
dit consultant for review and
monitoring of all TNUDF and
TNCRUDP sub-projects




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 1
 IN-TNUIFSL-351023-CS-INDV
/ Appointment of Individual C
onsultant (Ms.Chitra Rajesh)                  Individual Consult                                           Pending Impleme
                                   /   Post                        Direct - National    84,000.00   0.00                     2023-03-20            2023-03-27   2023-03-30   2023-04-01   2027-03-31
as Environmental Safeguards                   ant Selection                                                ntation
Consultant for review and mo
nitoring of all TNUDF and TN
CRUDP sub-projects

 IN-TNUIFSL-351010-CS-INDV
/ Appointment of Individual C
onsultant (Mr. G. Sathish Ku                  Individual Consult                                           Pending Impleme
                                   /   Post                        Direct - National    66,500.00   0.00                     2023-03-20            2023-03-25   2023-03-28   2023-04-01   2026-03-31
mar) as Technical Quality Co                  ant Selection                                                ntation
nsultant (GIS) for review of G
IS in consultancy assignment
s taken up under TNCRUDP.

 IN-TNUIFSL-351013-CS-INDV
/ Appointing a Individual Con
sultant (Mr. M. Karthikeyan)
                                              Individual Consult                                           Pending Impleme
as Technical Quality Consulta      /   Post                        Direct - National    64,000.00   0.00                     2023-03-20            2023-03-25   2023-03-28   2023-04-01   2026-03-31
                                              ant Selection                                                ntation
nt (Civil) for review of all con
sultancy services taken unde
r TNCRUDP for a period of thr
ee years

 IN-TNUIFSL-351011-CS-INDV
/ Appointment of Individual C
onsultant (Mrs. M. Shanthi) a                 Individual Consult                                           Pending Impleme
                                   /   Post                        Direct - National    12,000.00   0.00                     2023-03-20            2023-03-25   2023-03-28   2023-04-01   2024-03-31
s Technical Quality Consultan                 ant Selection                                                ntation
t (Civil) for review of all cons
ultancy services taken up un
der TNCRUDP

 IN-TNUIFSL-351017-CS-CDS /
Supervisory Consultancy Ser
vices during the Handholding                                                                               Pending Impleme
                                   /   Post   Direct Selection     Direct - National    83,000.00   0.00                     2023-03-20            2023-03-30                2023-04-10   2025-10-15
Phase for the Real Time Floo                                                                               ntation
d Forecasting and Spatial De
cision Support System (RTFF
& SDSS) in Chennai Basin

 IN-TNUIFSL-375180-CS-CDS /
Consulting Services for “Proo
f Checking of Engineering De
signs and Costing of DPR for I                                                                             Pending Impleme
                                   /   Post   Direct Selection     Direct - National    60,000.00   0.00                     2023-08-06            2023-08-16                2023-10-20   2024-04-17
ntegrated Storm Water Drain                                                                                ntation
s (ISWD) in Tambaram City M
unicipal Corporation, Mangad
u, Kundarathur and Nanthiva
ram-Guduvanchery Urban Lo
cal Bodies”.
 IN-TNUIFSL-385194-CS-CDS /
Consulting Services for Gene
ration of DEM & DSM using Hi                                                                               Pending Impleme
                                   /   Post   Direct Selection     Direct - National   360,000.00   0.00                     2023-10-09            2023-10-09                2023-12-04   2024-08-30
gh Resolution Satellite Image                                                                              ntation
for the Chennai Real Time Flo
od Forecasting Project (CRTF
F)




                                                                                                                                          Page 2
