Public Disclosure Authorized



                                 Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program (TNSUDP)
                                                                      PROCUREMENT PLAN

                                 I.     General

                                 1.   Project information:

                                        • Project: Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program (TNSUDP)
                                        • Country: India
                                        • Project Code: P150395
Public Disclosure Authorized




                                 2.   Bank’s approval Date of the procurement Plan Draft Procurement Plan
                                      dated February 19, 2015 Revision 0 agreed by the Bank on February 19, 2015

                                 3.   Implementing Agencies: TNUIFSL, DMA, CMWSSB, TWADB, Chennai
                                      Corporation and other ULBs

                                 4.   Period covered by this procurement plan: 18 months

                                 5.   Risk Rating for the Implementing Agency: Substantial

                                 6.   Original Procurement Risk Rating for the Project: Substantial
Public Disclosure Authorized




                                 7.   Current Procurement Risk Rating for the Project: Substantial

                               II. Works, Non-consulting services and Goods.

                               1 a) Procurement Methods and Thresholds

                               Category             Method of Procurement                 Threshold (US$ Equivalent)
                               Works        International Competitive Bidding (ICB)      > 40,000,000
                                                                                         Up to 40,000,000 (with NCB
                                            National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
                                                                                         conditions)
                                            Shopping                                     Up to 100,000
                                                                                         As per paragraph 3.7 of
                                            Direct Contracting (DC)
Public Disclosure Authorized




                                                                                         Guidelines
                                                                                         As per paragraph 3.14 of
                                            Public-Private Partnership (PPP) for Works
                                                                                         Guidelines
                                                                                         As per paragraph 3.9 of
                                            Force Account
                                                                                         Guidelines
                                                                                         As per paragraph 3.6 of
                                            Framework Agreement (FA)
                                                                                         Guidelines
                               Goods and    International Competitive Bidding (ICB)      > 3,000,000
                               non-         Limited International Bidding (LIB)          wherever agreed by Bank
                               consultant   National Competitive Bidding (NCB)           Up to 3,000,000 (with NCB
                               services                                                  conditions)
                               (NCS)        Shopping                                     Up to 100,000
                                            Direct Contracting (DC)                      As per paragraph 3.7 of
                                                                                         Guidelines
                                            Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Services    As per paragraph 3.14 of
                                                                                         Guidelines
                                            Force Account (only for NCS)                 As per paragraph 3.9 of
                                                                                         Guidelines
Framework Agreement (FA)               As per paragraph 3.6 of
                                       Guidelines
Procurement from United Nations (UN)   As per paragraph 3.10 of
Agencies                               Guidelines
1 b) Prior Review Threshold

     Works:        All contracts more than USD 10 million equivalent

     Goods:        All contracts more than USD 2 million equivalent

     Non-Consultant Services and IT systems:     All contracts more than USD 2 million
     equivalent

     In addition, the justifications for all contracts to be issued using LIB or direct
     contracting shall be subject to prior review. First framework agreement will be
     subject to prior review irrespective of value. For prior review contracts, the
     amendments for increasing the cost or extension of time beyond 15% of original
     value shall also be subject to Bank’s prior review.

2.    Pre-qualification – Not envisaged

3.    Applicable Guidelines: All the contracts issued under the project will follow the
      World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement of goods, works and non-consulting
      services under IBRD loans and IDA credits & grants by World Bank borrowers”
      dated January 2011 (as updated in July 2014).

4.    Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: NCB will be conducted in
      accordance with paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the following
      provisions:

                i. Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the GOI Task
                   Force (and as amended for time to time), shall be used for bidding;
               ii. Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated
                   national daily newspaper (or on a widely used website or electronic
                   portal with free national and international access along with an
                   abridged version of the said advertisement published in a widely
                   circulated national daily inter-alia giving the website/electronic portal
                   details from which the details of the invitation to bid can be
                   downloaded), at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission
                   of bids;
              iii. No special preference will be accorded to any bidder either for price or
                   for other terms and conditions when competing with foreign bidders,
                   state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from
                   any given State;
              iv. Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no
                   negotiation of price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated
                   bidder;
               v. Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed with reference to
                   Contracts subject to Bank prior review without the prior concurrence of
                   the Bank (i) for the first request for extension if it is longer than four
                   weeks; and (ii) for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of
                   the period (such concurrence will be considered by Bank only in cases
                   of Force Majeure and circumstances beyond the control of the
                   Purchaser/ Employer)
                vi. Re-bidding shall not be carried out with reference to Contracts subject
                     to Bank prior review without the prior concurrence of the Bank
               vii. The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or
                     "bracket" of prices shall not be used in the project;
               viii. Rate contracts entered into by Directorate General of Supplies and
                     Disposals will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB procedures.
                     Such contracts will be acceptable however for any procurement under
                     the Shopping procedures;
                ix. Two or three envelope system will not be used (except when using e-
                     Procurement system assessed and agreed by the Bank)

          Other agreed provisions are:

          • Any discount received from the bidders after bid submission deadline will not
            be considered either during the bid evaluation or the contract award.
          • Domestic preference will be applicable for ICB procurement of Goods as per
            Appendix 2 of the Procurement Guidelines.
          • Bids received from foreign bidders will not be rejected under NCB.
          • DGS&D rate contracts may be used as framework agreement (FA) provided:
                i. Use of DGS&D rate contracts as FA must be reflected on the
                   procurement plan agreed by the Bank for particular goods.
               ii. Before issuing the purchasing order, the implementing agency will
                   carry out a price analysis on the specific good that is intended to be
                   purchased. If after this due diligence the implementing agency
                   concludes (and Bank agrees) that the DGS&D rate contracts are more
                   advantageous, DGS&D rate contracts may be used as FA.
              iii. To meet the Bank's requirements for right to audit and F&C, these
                   clauses may be included in the Purchase Orders (in case the
                   purchasers are directly placing the purchase orders to DGS&D rate
                   contract holders). On the other hand, if indent is placed through
                   DGS&D, the Purchaser has the option to sign a separate undertaking
                   with DGS&D rate contract holder, where Bank's right to audit and F&C
                   clauses could be mentioned.

5.     Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule – As per plan in
       STEP

III.    Selection of Consultants

1 a) Selection Methods and Thresholds

            Method of Procurement                 Threshold (US$ Equivalent)
 Selection Based on Consultants’             Up to 300,000
 Qualifications (CQS)/Least-Cost Selection
 (LCS)
 Single-Source Selection (SSS)               As per paragraphs 3.9-3.11 of
                                             Guidelines
 Individuals                                 As per Section V of Guidelines
 Particular Types of Consultants             As per paragraphs 3.15-3.21 of
                                             Guidelines
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)/   for all other cases
Quality-Based Selection (QBS)/ Selection
under a Fixed Budget (FBS)

  1 b) Prior Review Threshold

       Consultancy Services: > US$ 1,000,000 for firms; and
                             > US$ 300,000 for individuals

       In addition, the justifications for all contracts to be issued on the basis of single-
       source selection will be subject to prior review. For prior review contracts, the
       amendments for increasing the cost or extension of time beyond 15% of original
       value shall also be subject to Bank’s prior review.

   2.        Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of
        consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $ 800,000 equivalent per
        contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
        provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

  3.    Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: None.

  4.    Applicable Guidelines: All the contracts issued under the project will follow the
        World Bank’s “Guidelines: Selection and employment of consultants under IBRD
        loans and IDA credits & grants by World Bank borrowers” dated January 2011 (as
        updated in July 2014).

  5.    Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule –
        As per plan in STEP
PROCUREMENT
                India : Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program
PLAN
General Information
Country:           India                                                                                 2019-01-02
                                                    Bank’s Approval Date of the Original Procurement Plan:
                                                                                                         2022-11-21
                                                    Revised Plan Date(s): (comma delineated, leave blank if none)
Project ID:        P150395                          GPN Date:
Project Name:      Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program
Loan / Credit No:  IBRD / 84880
                   Commissionerate of Municipal Administration
Executing Agency(ies):

WORKS
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                                      Estimated Actual Am                                                                                                                                                                             Bid Evaluation Report
                               Loan / Credit N                                                                    Market Approac Procurement Pro Prequalification High SEA/SH R Procurement D                     Process St Draft Pre-qualification Prequalification Evalu                          Draft Bidding Docum Specific Procurement       Bidding Documents a Proposal Submission /                                                 Contract Complet
       Description                                      Component                Review Type       Method                                                                                     Amount (U ount (US$                                                                                                                                                                             and Recommendation          Signed Contract
                                      o.                                                                                 h             cess           (Y/N)             isk     ocument Type                         atus         Documents               ation Report                                ent / Justification Notice / Invitation             s Issued        Opening / Minutes                                                          ion
                                                                                                                                                                                                  S$)       )                                                                                                                                                                                       for Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Planned     Actual      Planned      Actual                            Planned       Actual      Planned     Actual    Planned     Actual  Planned     Actual    Planned     Actual        Planned     Actual   Planned




GOODS
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bid Evaluation Report
                               Loan / Credit N                                                                    Market Approac Procurement Pro Prequalification Estimated Am Actual Amount                  Process St Draft Pre-qualification Prequalification Evalu    Draft Bidding Docum Specific Procurement            Bidding Documents a Proposal Submission /
       Description                                      Component                Review Type       Method                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and Recommendation        Signed Contract      Contract Completion
                                      o.                                                                                 h             cess           (Y/N)        ount (US$)      (US$)                         atus         Documents              ation Report           ent / Justification Notice / Invitation                  s Issued        Opening / Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               for Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Planned        Actual     Planned     Actual    Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual       Planned     Actual  Planned     Actual    Planned     Actual     Planned       Actual    Planned     Actual
 IN-CMA-92336-GO-RFQ / 2 d
ays training program to Sanit                    A. Results Based Grants for
                                                                                               Request for Quota                      Single Stage - One E
ary workers of ULB-procurem IBRD / 84880         Urban Governance Compon       Post                              Limited                                                        78,571.43              0.00   Canceled                                                                               2019-01-02                                                                                  2019-02-27             2019-08-26
                                                                                               tions                                  nvelope
ent of 10000 no. of training                     ent
materials kit bags to supply t
o the participants



NON CONSULTING SERVICES
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bid Evaluation Report
                               Loan / Credit N                                                                    Market Approac Procurement Pro Prequalification Estimated Am Actual Amount                  Process St Draft Pre-qualification Prequalification Evalu    Draft Bidding Docum Specific Procurement            Bidding Documents a Proposal Submission /
       Description                                      Component                Review Type       Method                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and Recommendation        Signed Contract      Contract Completion
                                      o.                                                                                 h             cess           (Y/N)        ount (US$)      (US$)                         atus         Documents              ation Report           ent / Justification Notice / Invitation                  s Issued        Opening / Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               for Award
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Planned        Actual     Planned     Actual    Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual       Planned     Actual  Planned     Actual    Planned     Actual     Planned       Actual    Planned     Actual




CONSULTING FIRMS
Activity Reference No. /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Combined Evaluation
                               Loan / Credit N                                                                    Market Approac       Contract Type         Estimated Amo Actual Amount                                                Expression of Interest Short List and Draft R Request for Proposals Opening of Technical          Evaluation of Technic
       Description                                      Component                Review Type        Method                                                                               Process Status        Terms of Reference                                                                                                                               Report and Draft Neg    Signed Contract       Contract Completion
                                      o.                                                                                 h                                      unt (US$)      (US$)                                                           Notice          equest for Proposals        as Issued         Proposals / Minutes               al Proposal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   otiated Contract
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Planned      Actual       Planned     Actual     Planned     Actual      Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual    Planned      Actual    Planned     Actual    Planned    Actual      Planned    Actual




INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANTS
Activity Reference No. /
                               Loan / Credit N                                                                    Market Approac       Contract Type         Estimated Amo Actual Amount                                                Invitation to Identifie Draft Negotiated Cont
       Description                                      Component                Review Type        Method                                                                               Process Status        Terms of Reference                                                         Signed Contract         Contract Completion
                                      o.                                                                                 h                                      unt (US$)      (US$)                                                    d/Selected Consultant            ract
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Planned      Actual       Planned     Actual     Planned     Actual      Planned       Actual      Planned       Actual
 IN-CMA-295544-CS-CDS / "Hi
ring of Agency to develop a
Mobile application to conduct                    A. Results Based Grants for
                                                                                                                                                                                            Pending Impleme
door–to–door Attribute collec IBRD / 84880       Urban Governance Compon       Post            Direct Selection   Direct                                          15,448.49          0.00                     2022-05-17                2022-05-22                                      2022-06-01                2022-08-30
                                                                                                                                                                                            ntation
tion / Verification / Updation                   ent
with due linkages to Municip
al Information System(MIS) a
nd GIS server".

 IN-CMA-300881-CS-CDS / Ap
pointment of Consultancy Se
rvices on single source basis                    A. Results Based Grants for
                                                                                                                                                                                            Pending Impleme
to work in PFM Reform Cell fo IBRD / 84880       Urban Governance Compon       Post            Direct Selection   Direct                                         123,803.00          0.00                     2022-06-22                2022-06-27                                      2022-07-28                2023-01-24
                                                                                                                                                                                            ntation
r checking the quality of ULB                    ent
s Accounts generated from S
ystem and to attend other Ac
counts & Finance related acti
vities
 IN-CMA-326945-CS-CDS / Ca
pturing of high resolution Im
                                                 A. Results Based Grants for
ages using drone technology                                                                                                                                                                 Pending Impleme
                                IBRD / 84880     Urban Governance Compon       Post            Direct Selection   Direct - National                              221,612.00          0.00                     2022-11-17                2022-11-20                                      2022-12-01                2023-05-30
and rectification of positionin                                                                                                                                                             ntation
                                                 ent
g anomalies using DGPS poin
ts to generate property map
and utility map in 14 ULBs.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 1
